  –One more person confirmed dead -Two children rescued from the forest The Kaduna State Government said Sunday evening, it  has received further operational feedback from the military under the auspices of Operation Safe Haven (OPSH) that had earlier informed the government about the killing of a herder and six locals at Ungwan Pah and Ungwan Bido, Jema’a local government area.  Samuel Aruwan ,Commissioner, Ministry of Internal Security and Home Affairs disclosed this in a statement.     He said in  the second operational feedback, the military stated that Special Forces of the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) have arrested two suspects linked to the counter killing of today, Sunday, 29th November 2020, at Ungwan Bido, Jema’a local government area where six persons were killed: The suspects linked to the killing of the six  were identified as Ardo Ahmadu Alhassan  and Abubakar Isyaku.    The military had on Saturday 28th November 2020, arrested suspects linked to the killing of a herder, one Isyaka Saidu on Saturday 28th November 2020 at Ungwan Pah in the same local government identified as :Victor Markus; Gero David  and Thankgod Sunday.      In another development, the military further told the Kaduna State Government, that in the course of clearance operation in the general area, it found one herder, Abubakar Alhassan in his hut at Kussom village unconscious with bruises and rushed the herder to Kowa Medical Center, Jagindi Town, where a medical doctor confirmed the victim dead.     The military has handed over the corpse to the police for further investigation. Similarly, the military received distress call from a community leader in the general area, that some children were seen wandering in a forest after their pastoralists parents had fled. Troops immediately set out to the location and rescued the two children identified as Usman Wada  and Didi Hudi.    The children have been handed over to the police for immediate reunion with their families when they  are traced.     Furthermore, Governor El-Rufai has commended community leaders for assisting the military to stabilise the situation and to apprehend suspects. Government acknowledges the community leader who helped save the lives of the children, aged nine and five, for his immense contributions to security and peace in the area. 