The slain Mr Philip Shekwo, the Nasarawa State All Progressives Congress (APC) Chairman, was buried on Friday in his home town, Yelwa, Toto Local Government Area amid tears by family and sympathisers. Shekwo was buried at about 2:20 p.m. at his residence in accordance with Christian rites. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalls that Shekwo was abducted on Nov. 21 from his residence in Lafia, the state capital, and found dead on Sunday, Nov. 22. Gov. Abdullahi Sule while speaking at the funeral service at Ebenezer Baptist Chruch, Yelwa, assured of the state government’s commitment to fish out perpetrators of the crime to serve as deterrent to others. Sule, who was represented by his Deputy, Dr Emmanuel Akabe, also assured the family of the deceased APC chairman of prayers and support. “Philip is a gentle man to the core. His death is not only a loss to Yelwa community, Toto LGA, the state alone but Nigeria as a whole because he was a detribalised Nigerian. “By God’s grace, the perpetrators will surely be brought to book as it is unfair, evil and an ungodly act. ” Government will do everything within its powers to ensure that the perpetrators are brought to book,” Sule said. Also speaking, Sen. Umar Al-Makura (APC- Nasarawa South), described the late APC chairman as a man of peace, progress and development. “Shekwo is a friend, brother and someone that I have cherished,” he said. The former governor urged the state government to conduct vigorous investigation to fish out perpetrators of the act. Also speaking, wife of the deceased, Larai, said that her husband was a peaceful man. ” My husband was a man of prayers, man that does not want to cheat, he was a caring father and hero,” she said. She urged the people to pray for the family and for the repose of her husband’s soul. In his sermon, Dr Bulus Ali, President of Benue/ Nasarawa Baptist Conference, said death was is an inevitable end of all human and living beings. ” There is no end to death as there is life after death and there is going to be judgment after death,” he said. The man of God urged the state government to do more in the area of security in order to protect lives and property. ” Government should improve on the security apparatus so that we can live in peace. If not, no one is safe in the state,” he said. He admonished Nigerians to live a life worth of emulation in order to inherit the kingdom of God. The clergy prayed for the repose of the soul of Shekwo as he equally prayed for protection of the family of the late APC Chairman. NAN reports that other dignitaries in attendance at the burial included, the Speaker of the Nasarawa State House of Assembly, Alhaji Ibrahim Abdullahi, Hajiya Silifat Sule, the Nasarawa State First Lady and Sen. Godiya Akwashiki (APC- Nasarawa North). Others are Rep Jonathan Gaza (PDP), Rep Abdulmumin Ari (APC) and former deputy governor of the state, Hon Silas Agara. (NAN) The Toto Development Association (TODA) in Nasarawa State has urged the State Government and security agencies to arrest the killers of the Chairman of the state chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr Philip Shekwo. This is contained in a statement issued by the Acting President of the association,… November 23, 2020 In "News" Gov. Abubakar  Bello of Niger has condoled with the government and people of Nasarawa state over the death of the state chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr Philip Shekwo. Bello in a condolence message by his Chief Press Secretary, Mrs Mary Noel-Berje, in Minna on Monday, expressed shock over… November 23, 2020 In "News" The Speaker, Nasarawa State House of Assembly, Ibrahim Balarabe-Abdullahi, on Sunday paid condolence visit to the family of late Philip Shekwo, State Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Shekwo was abducted by gunmen from his residence in Bukan-Sidi, Lafia, on Saturday and was on Sunday confirmed dead by the… November 22, 2020 In "News"