Gov. David Umahi of Ebonyi has barred his supporters from castigating the state’s National Assembly members and others who did not defect with him from the PDP to the APC. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the three senators and six House of Representatives members from the state among other public officers, did not defect with the governor to the APC. Umahi gave the instruction on Thursday in Abakaliki during his formal declaration for the APC in the presence of the party’s National Caretaker Committee Chairman, governors of Kebbi, Niger and Jigawa among other top stalwarts. The governor said that Ebonyi is presently 99.9 per cent APC as he left the remainder for the national assembly members among other non-defectors. “Do not castigate them because they are looking for something and will come back when they get it. “They are my children and I love them very much as the father of the state,” he said. He thanked his appointees and teeming supporters for believing in him adding that the path he chose was best for the state and the South East zone. “We have the deputy governor, speaker of the House of Assembly, 110 state executive council members, 1,200 executive assistants, senior technical assistants and technical assistants and 374 LGA liaison officers together in this agreement. “We also have 400 members of boards and commissions, 560 LGA management committee members, 130 LGA supervisors, the entire chairmen of the 13 LGAs, party chairmen in the councils, legislators among others in this movement,” he said. Umahi urged political stakeholders in the South East zone to move en masse to the APC because it was time for the zone to move to the centre. Alhaji Mai Buni, the APC National Caretaker Chairman and Yobe governor, congratulated Umahi and his supporters for joining the party and urged him to carry everyone along. “Your entrance into the party is timely, coming at a time we are rebuilding the party with reconciliation and about to begin membership registration. “The national caretaker committee of the party has dissolved its structures in Ebonyi and conferred on you, the leader of the party in the state,” he said. Dr Kelechi Igwe, Ebonyi Deputy Governor, said that the governor informed him of his decision to join APC and he did not waste time in accepting to move with him. “I am promising the governor that I will go where he goes, stay where he stays and he should dictate to me having called me to duty,” he said. Chief Nwachukwu Eze, Chairman of the disbanded party’s state executive committee and an Umahi critic, pledged to work with the governor and consequently cease his constant criticisms on radio. NAN reports top party stalwarts gave their goodwill messages as the national caretaker committee chairman inaugurated the newly constituted state’s caretaker committee. (NAN)