By Chimezie Godfrey
A portal that will enable exited N-Power beneficiaries to apply for Central Bank of Nigeria Empowerment Options has been launched by the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development. The platform which was developed in collaboration with the CBN will enable Exited N-Power Beneficiaries to log on and apply for the various economic, empowerment and entrepreneurship options provided by the CBN. In a statement signed by the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry Bashir Nura Alkali,  the Minister Sadiya Umar Farouq urged and encouraged interested Exited Beneficiaries of N- Power to log on to the portal and provide the required additional information for possible placements into the various CBN intervention options. The Minister also emphasized that the NEXIT PORTAL will determine the suitability of the beneficiaries for the CBN affiliated programs. “The NEXIT portal is to determine the suitability of the beneficiaries for the CBN affiliated programs and is dependent on meeting the criteria and conditions set by the CBN for the said programs”. The Minister expressed her deep appreciation to the CBN Governor Mr Godwin Emefiele CON for his support adding that the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs remained committed to the vision of Mr President to lift 100 million Nigerians out of poverty in the next 10 years. She pledged the Ministry’s willingness to collaborate with relevant agencies of government and other stakeholders towards the realization of that vision and congratulated the exited beneficiaries while wishing them well in their future endeavours. “The Federal Government of Nigeria is very proud of the milestones you have achieved during your period of service to the nation. “As we prepare to exit into prospective endeavors, we are confident that you will be able to channel all you have learnt over the years into successful ventures that will improve the economy of the country and create further opportunities for you and other citizens. “Chasing a dream requires effort, passion and hard work which you are now halfway through. I congratulate you and wish you a very successful future”. By Chimezie GodfreyThe Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development Sadiya Umar Farouq has approved the payment of stipends to the exiting N-Power beneficiaries under one of its National Social Investment Programmes. In a statement signed  by the SA Media, Mrs Nneka Anibeze, disclosed that the Minister stated… August 28, 2020 In "News" I am not sure whether Sadiya Umar Farouq, the youngest minister in President Muhammadu Buhari’s cabinet listens to hip hop but if she does she must be familiar with DJ Khaled’s monster hit – “All I do is Win.” While the self-effacing minister many not agree with the in-your-face braggadocio… July 1, 2020 In "Columns" By Chimezie Godfrey The Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development has announced the transitioning of Independent Monitors recruited to monitor Batch A and B of the N-Power programme. The ministry also announced the transitioning of other National Social Investment Programmes.  The National Social Investment Programme (NSIP)… July 3, 2020 In "News"