The Kaduna State Government on Thursday dismissed reports that motorists and travelers have stopped using the Kaduna-Abuja Road. The state’s Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan made the denial during a visit to some communities along the highway. He said troops have been deployed to conduct aggressive patrol, while government and security agencies have been meeting with communities along the road to solicit their support for timely information on the activities of bandits and other criminals. “Vehicular movement is active on the double lane road, as commercial activities are also visible in local markets in Akilubu, Rijana, Kateri, Jere, Doka, Sabon Gayan and other communities surrounding the main road. “Ground troops of the ‘Operation Thunder Strike’ (OPTS) and Police Operatives of the ‘Operation Puff Adder’ are presently carrying out aggressive fighting patrols on the route, that stretches through three local government areas.” Aruwan added that a state government team and Coordinator of OPTS, Col. Ibrahim Gambari have been touring the route soliciting support from communities for the security agencies. In one of such engagement on Thursday with religious, traditional and community leaders at Akilubu village, the commissioner urged them to provide credible information and actionable intelligence, to enable security agencies deal decisively with bandits. “As you are all witnessing, troops have been taking the battle to the bandits and this is made possible because they got credible intelligence. “So, please cooperate with them and support them so that we will get it right and maintain security on the road.” Aruwan told journalists during the visit that, “contrary to reports that motorists and travelers have abandoned the road, you can see for yourselves that motorists are plying both sides of the dual carriageway.” He assured that the state government would continue to work with the military, police and all agencies in the battle against bandits in the state. (NAN)