By  Chimezie Godfrey The military has neutralized five Boko Haram and Islamic State for West Africa Province (ISWAP) terrorists, recovered arms and destroyed their logistics warehouse in the North East region of the country. This was disclosed by the Acting Director, Defence Media Operations, Defence Headquarters Abuja, Brig. Gen. Benard Onyeuko. Onyeuko stressed that Operation Fire Ball, a subsidiary operation under Operation Lafiya Dole which is meant to clear the remnants of the Boko Haram/ Islamic State West Africa Province  terrorists from their identified enclaves in the North East region has steadily continued to record significant results within the theatre of operation. He revealed that on 27 November 2020, troops of Army Super Camp 11 Gamboru-Ngala conducted a clearance operations at some suspected BHT/ISWAP criminals hideout at Garal Village and Bulankesa Village. According to him, the gallant troops made contact with the terrorists. “The highly motivated troops engaged and dominated them with rapid fire power. “The criminals fled in disarray as several of them sustained fatal injuries. As a result of the encounter, 2 x BHT/ISWAP criminals were neutralized. “Relatedly, on 27 November 2020 troops of Strong Response Area Pulka conducted a robust clearance patrol at area Ashigashiya. “They made contact with the criminals in their logistics base. In the ensuing gun battle 2 terrorists were neutralized while others escaped with debilitating gunshot wounds. “Several bags of assorted bags of grain and other food items were recovered. Thereafter the logistics warehouse was destroyed,” he stated. Onyeuko also disclosed that on 27 November 2020, troops of 27 Task Force Brigade laid in wait for some suspected BHT/ISWAP criminals around Doksa general area. He said the troops made contact with the criminals and engaged them with superior gun fire forcing the terrorists to flee into the Bush in disarray. According to him, in the aftermath of the encounter, 1 x BHT/ISWAP criminal was neutralized. He mentioned that the items recovered include 1x AK 47 Rifle, 2x Mobile Phones, 1x Bow and Arrow and one x  Boko Haram Terrorists pass slip(Identification Pass), adding that the recovered items are in their custody for profiling. Onyeuko commended the troops for their continued dedication and determination in flushing the remnants of the terrorists in their hideouts.  He encouraged them not to relent but build on the successes recorded so far. The General assured the entire populace of the North East region of the Nigerian military high command determination to finally rout the remnants of Boko Haram/Islamic State’s West Africa Province criminals from their enclaves in this zone. He also encouraged them to avail the troops with credible information that will help in the execution of the operation.