 The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)  has applauded the resolution by the British parliament to impose travel restriction and visa ban to officials of the President Muhammadu Buhari-led All Progressives Congress (APC) administration involved in the  alleged violation of human rights, including the shooting and killing of unarmed and peaceful demonstrators in our country. A statement by PDP Spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan  said the PDP however urges the United Nations and other international bodies to immediately list indicted officials of President Muhammadu Buhari’s government for the widespread crime against humanity going on in our country in the last five years.     He said “Our party also urges the British Government to extend the proposed sanctions to include the freezing of assets and funds belonging to such officials and their families in the United Kingdom. “We also call on other countries, including United States, France, the United Arab Emirates, South Africa among others to impose similar sanctions against indicted officials of the Buhari administration for human rights violations and crime against humanity. “Such sanctions should also be imposed on officials indicted for undermining our democracy and electoral system.”     PDP said “The international community must call out President Buhari, as the buck stops on his table, as the commander-in-chief, under whose watch, human rights violations including arbitrary arrests and detention in dehumanizing facilities, widespread extrajudicial killings, sudden disappearances of dissenting voices, disregard to rule of law, disobedience to court orders and foisting of siege mentality on the citizenry, have become the order of the day. “Indeed, the manifest use of brute force, including the deployment of the military with live ammunition, in addition to recruiting of armed thugs to attack and kill innocent Nigerian youths, who were in peaceful demonstration against widespread police brutality and other systemic injustices, underscores the horrible situation in Nigeria under President Buhari as detailed in earlier reports by Amnesty International and US Department of State among other international bodies.     “Is it not frightening that the Buhari Presidency has failed to come clean on who ordered the deployment of troops to Lekki Toll Gate in Lagos, where unarmed demonstrators were shot and killed even while waving our national flag and singing our nation’s anthem? “Is it not equally frightening that government has also failed to explain how armed thugs were seen being brought in security vans to unleash violence on demonstrators in Abuja and other parts of our country? “Rather than providing answers to these troubling questions, the Federal Government is desperate to gag Nigerians, muzzle the press, shut down the social media and even threatening the international media including CNN for carrying out an investigative report on the Lekki killing, while its officials continue to make contradicting claims on the matter.     “Moreover, the administration had turned a deaf ear to the demand for an independent National Truth Commission on the killings. Such stance only points to desperation for a huge cover up in the face of demand for answers by Nigerians and the international community. “Our party therefore urges the international community not to relent in standing for the Nigerian people at this critical time in our national history, particularly in ensuring respect to the rights of citizens and the sanctity of our electoral system,” PDP said  The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has directed that its flag at all the party’s offices be flown at half-mast for a period of one week, beginning from Friday. The party’s National Publicity Secretary, Mr Kola Ologbondiyan, disclosed this in a statement issued in Abuja on Thursday in reaction to President… October 23, 2020 In "News" The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has directed that its flag at all the party’s offices be flown at half-mast for a period of one week, beginning from Friday. The party’s National Publicity Secretary, Mr Kola Ologbondiyan, disclosed this in a statement issued in Abuja on Thursday in reaction to President… October 23, 2020 In "News" By Emmanuel Oloniruha & Cecilia Ijuo #TrackNigeria: The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its Presidential Candidate, Atiku Abubakar, have rejected the appointment of acting Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN). The PDP in a statement issued by its National Publicity Secretary, Mr Kola Ologbondiyan, on Friday in Abuja, said that the… January 26, 2019 In "News"