A lawmaker, Rep. Chinedu Ogah, representing Ezza South/Ikwo Federal Constituency on Friday disbursed N14 million education grants to 200 students in his constituency studying in different tertiary institutions in the country. Addressing the beneficiaries in Abakaliki, Ogah admonished them to be dedicated to their studies and avoid acts that could jeopardise their future. He also charged them to make judicious use of the largesse and not fritter it away on frivolous life styles. Ogah said that as prospective future leaders, they required fundamental leadership and educational training to enhance their capacity to lead. He said that the grant was part of his 2020 constituency projects.
He said: “In constituency projects, you are allowed to fix money in a project. “Some can fix in training, supply of fertilisers, while some can fix it in buying clothes for their wives. “But I deemed it necessary to fix mine in your education because all of you are upcoming leaders. “You are those that have the future, you are among those that would stand taller than us in no distant time, if you really chart your future properly. “This is why we have deemed it necessary to map out some money from the budgetary allocation of N50 million to give some education grant to most of you. “We did the part one of this scheme in December where we gave about 850 secondary school students grants to assist them in their certificate examinations. “We have received calls from most of those beneficiaries telling us that they did well in their examinations,” Ogah said. “Some of you here have planned what to do with the money. Some have planned how to buy Christmas items with it. “Some have planned how to buy gifts for their girlfriends and the same with the girls. “But I want to tell you that the grant is all about your future,” he said. He advised them to ensure that it helped to add value to their lives, adding that they should plan well for their future. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that each beneficiary received N60,000, while four overseas students received N500,000 each. (NAN) By Douglas Okoro #TrackNigeria: Chief Chinedu Ogah, All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate for the Ikwo/Ezza South Federal Constituency has commended members of the constituency for their support in the Feb. 23 elections. Ogah stated this at Ohatekwe in Ikwo Local Government Area of Ebonyi in a thank you rally to appreciate… March 3, 2019 In "News" By Muhammad Nasir Bello House of Representative member Kebbe/Tambuwal Federal Constituency in Sokoto state, Hon. Abdussamad Dasuki has disbursed N1 million as scholarship grant to 200 students in the constituency. The beneficiaries were drawn from Tambuwal Local Government Area. Dasuki who gave out the grant on Thursday in Sokoto said:… February 7, 2019 In "Education" The Appeal Court, Enugu Division on Friday reaffirmed the election tribunal victory of Comrade Chinedu Ogah, All Progressives Congress, (APC), as House of Representative member for Ezza-South/Ikwo Federal Constituency in Ebonyi. The Court upheld the victory of Ogah over the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Lazarus Ogbee.… November 1, 2019 In "Judiciary"