Gov. Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti is to host this year’s edition of Best of Nollywood (BON) Awards on Dec. 5, organisers have said. Founder and Convener of BON, Seun Oloketuyi, said in a statement that the award night would take place at the Rev. Adetiloye Hall, Trade Fair Complex, Ado-Ekiti. Oloketuyi said Fayemi offered to host this years BON while addressing the organisers of the annual pan-Nigeria travelling awards. According to him, the award is geared towards rewarding excellence among practitioners in the Nigerian film industry during the year in review. “By every indication, the fact that Best of Nollywood Awards is holding this year is a miracle. “It has been a challenging year for everyone, filmmakers, actors, stakeholders in the movie industry were not left out. “The invaluable support of the Ekiti State Government, some airlines, some hair makers and those who make the award happen yearly are to be commended,” he said. Tope Ajijola, Spokesperson for Value Jet Airlines, said that the carrier would be transporting guests via charter flight for the awards. NAN reports that movies like Elevator Baby, Sugar Rush, The Sessions, Wede, This Lady Called Life, and Living In Bondage (Breaking Free) have been nominated in the Movie of the Year category. Other categories include Director of the Year, Best Kiss in a Movie, Most Promising Actor of the Year, Movie with the Best Sound, among others. Some actors nominated in different categories are Timini Egbuson, Adesuwa Etomi, Efa Iwara, Bisola Aiyeola, Lateef Adedimeji, JKA Swanky, Abisola Adebayo, Eyinna Nwigwe and Toyin Abraham. (NAN) Veteran Nollywood actors Kenneth Okonkwo and Tonto Dikeh have been honoured with cultural titles at the 2019 Nollywood New Yam Festival, an annual thespians’ fiesta, which showcases Nigeria’s rich cultural heritage. The duo received the awards at the annual cultural event held at the Heritage Africa Centre on Saturday in … November 3, 2019 In "Society News" Veteran actor Sadiq Daba has been honoured as “Garkuwan Nollywood,” Hausa translation for “Shield of Nollywood,” by stakeholders in the motion picture industry. The actor and former broadcaster received the honour at the 2018 Nollywood New Yam Festival Awards held on Thursday night in Abuja. Daba, who many in the… October 27, 2018 In "News" Chief Willie Obiano, Anambra Governor, has appointed Nollywood actor Zubby Micheal as his Special Adviser on media. The actor announced the good news via his Instagram page, where he shared a photo of himself holding what appeared to be his appointment letter. “Dutycalls #SAonmedia #doings #nawedeyhere #blessup” he captioned the… November 26, 2019 In "News"