The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ebonyi has rented the ultra-modern International Conference Centre, Abakaliki as its new state secretariat.
The party’s state Caretaker Publicity Secretary, Mr Chidi Ogbuatu, stated this in a statement issued in Abakaliki on Monday.
Ogbuatu stated that the party would continue to operate at the centre, pending the construction of a new secretariat complex by Gov. David Umahi.
“We acquired the whole complex, including the hall that hosts government events.         “The proposed new party secretariat is expected to be the best in Africa, to conform with the governor’s penchant for world-class edifices,” the statement added.
It further stated that the party’s caretaker committee held its inaugural meeting on Monday, under its new Chairman, Mr Stanley Okoro-Emegha.
“The chairman urged members to show greater commitment to the task entrusted to them.
“He also urged party faithful to maintain the peace and harmony brought by the governor’s entrance into their fold, while praying for the attainment of the party goals,” the statement stated. (NAN) #TrackNigeria: The Social Democratic Party (SDP) in Ebonyi, has petitioned the Inspector-General of Police (IGP) over alleged police refusal to approve request for orderly for its governorship candidate, Mr Ndubuisi Chibueze-Agbo. The party, therefore, urged the Nigeria Police Force to provide security orderly to the party’s governorship candidate in the… January 18, 2019 In "Crime & Police" The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ebonyi says it will pick candidates for the 2019 general elections through consensus, as the approach “best suits the state’s peculiarities.’’ This was the resolution reached after an emergency State Executive Committee (SEC) meeting, held on Wednesday night in Abakaliki, with APC leaders, including… September 6, 2018 In "Politics" Gov. David Umahi of Ebonyi has barred his supporters from castigating the state’s National Assembly members and others who did not defect with him from the PDP to the APC. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the three senators and six House of Representatives members from the state… November 19, 2020 In "News"