   The Kaduna State Government said Tuesday  it has been informed that troops of the Operation Thunder Strike (OPTS) late Monday night successfully repelled  bandits on the Kaduna-Abuja Road.  Samuel Aruwan, Commissioner, Ministry of Internal Security and Home Affairs disclosed this in a statement.      He said  the  bandits appeared along the pipeline axis of Kakau general area in an attempt to strike, when troops engaged and repelled them with superior fire power. Many of the bandits escaped into the forest with gun shot wounds, having been denied freedom of action.     When troops cleared the road for traffic, it was discovered that a driver was hit by the bandits who were fleeing the location. Also, two buses ran into a ditch resulting in injuries to some passengers, who were rushed to the hospital by the security operatives.     The government was also briefed that the bandits, in frustration at being denied freedom of action, attacked Maiginginya village in Igabi local government area at around 3am and killed two persons namely: Nasiru Yahaya and Isah Bature. They also injured the duo of Magaji Goma and Zurkhalaini Alhassan.   Similarly, the government  said it was briefed that security agencies foiled a bandit attack in the early hours of today(Tuesday) along Zaria-Funtua Road in Giwa local government.   Two citizens were rescued and rushed to Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital, Shika. Operatives are still carrying out aggressive patrols in the general area. The government sent its condolences to the families of the deceased, and prayed for the repose of their souls, while wishing the injured speedy recovery.     Governor Nasir El-Rufai praised the troops for the bravery and courage exhibited in repelling the bandits. The Kaduna State Government  also said itis in constant touch with the Federal Government, Military, Police, Department of State Services and relevant security agencies towards enhancing security of life and property. The Government will continue to keep citizens informed on the security situation in the State, Aruwan said   Kaduna State Government has disclosed that troops carrying out internal security operations rescued nine persons kidnapped along the Kaduna-Abuja Road on Sunday afternoon. The state government said Sunday  that it received operational feedback from the Defence Headquarters’ (DHQ) Operation Thunder Strike (OPTS) following Sunday’s incident, and inquiries from citizens on… November 15, 2020 In "Featured" The Kaduna State Vigilance Service (KADVIS) has informed the  State Government, that the service lost three personnel on Tuesday night in Chikun local government area, Commissioner for internal security and hom affairs, Samuel Aruwan said in a statement. The vigilante service  said bandits ambushed the personnel at Dande village… November 18, 2020 In "News" The Kaduna State Government on Thursday dismissed reports that motorists and travelers have stopped using the Kaduna-Abuja Road. The state’s Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan made the denial during a visit to some communities along the highway. He said troops have been deployed to conduct aggressive… November 19, 2020 In "Defence"