Borno Deputy Governor, Alhaji Umar Kadafur, has solicited the support of the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) to curb illegal migration and other cross-border crimes in the state. Kadafur made the call on Friday in Maiduguri while receiving the Assistant Controller General in charge of Zone “C”, Mr Abubakar kankara, who paid him a courtesy visit. Kadafur said that the Immigration as a critical stakeholder in the security apparatus, has a vital role to play in the implementation of the state’s 25-Year Development plan. The Deputy Governor assured NIS of government’s sustained support for its operations in the state. Earlier, Kankara said that his team was in Borno on tour of the formations in the zone. He said that the tour would afford the team the opportunity to discuss intelligence gathering and information sharing on how to secure the borders against the influx of illegal migrants into the country. Kankara pledged the readiness of the service to support the government in the implementation of its 25 years State Development Plan, particularly in the areas of documentation for those coming from outside the country to invest in the state. He also appealed to the Bornu government to support the Zone with logistics for effective coverage of the state. (NAN) By Abdallah el-Kurebe, Editor The All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate in Borno State, Professor Babagana Umara Zullum has named Umar Usman Kadafur as his running for the 2019 election in the state. Kadafur who faced the incumbent deputy governor, Usman Mamman Durkwa polled eight out of the nine votes… October 19, 2018 In "News" The Nigerian immigration Service (NIS), has inaugurated N145 million forward operational base to enhance border security in the area. Muhammed Babandede, the Controller-General of the immigration made this known in Daura on Monday during the official inauguration of the facility. He said the service was committed to constructing and equipping forward operational bases nationwide… December 23, 2019 In "News" The Katsina  State Command of the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), on Thursday, said it seized 436 voter cards and 192 National Identity slips from foreigners in the second and third quarters of the year. The state Controller of Immigration, Mr Joshua Ajisafe, who stated this in Katsina, said 729 irregular… September 13, 2018 In "News"