 Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello has assured that the All Progressive Congress, APC was committed to presenting a presidential candidate for the 2023 General election that would unite the nation and would be acceptable to all irrespective of the intrigues and dynamics ahead of the political season.    He also affirmed that the lofty dream of the major opposition party, The Peoples Democratic Party, to win back the seat was an act of building its castle in the air as they were living in the past. The Governor made this known on Thursday while featuring on Channels Television Programme, “Politics Today”, where he responded to questions surrounding the recent defection of Ebonyi State Governor, Dave Umahi into the rulling APC.     He saluted Governor Umahi, pointing out that he should be recognized as the politician of the year, saying he has sacrificed hugely to enlist his people and the South East to get good representation at the center. “Governor David Umahi is a unifier and Mr President has a lot of respect for him. Though in PDP then, Governor Umahi’s leadership has been that of the APC and Mr President is in love with his policies and even governors of the APC”, he said.     Governor Bello pointed out that with the available statistics, the North Central and the South East region have been largely deprived in national polity, pointing out that there was nothing wrong in these region seeking to contest for the presidency in 2023. He said that the current exodus witnessed in the main opposition party and the ones to soon join the APC were majorly a resultant effect of President Muhamammadu Buhari’s smirk display of sterling leadership which was attracting the new and aspiring entrants into the APC fold. The Governor stated clearly that the APC was a party that would always ensure equity, fairness and justice, noting that the party was willing and ready to give opportunity to anyone who is willing and ready to aspire for the number one seat of the nation when the time comes.     “One thing I can assure Nigerians is that APC will produce a president that is going to be the unifier; that is going to be fair and just; and the majority of Nigerians irrespective of religion, ethnicity or where they come from will accept 100% in 2023”, he said. Governor Bello noted that the People of Nigeria were strongly behind the APC, adding that the party is strongly rooted at the grassroots. He said the APC-led government has done greatly in developing the country hence the party was guaranteed of massive victory come 2023 General Election. On whether the APC will zone its presidency to the South East, the governor said the one unique qualities of the APC is that it is built on equity, fairness and justice.    He said, “When the time comes to pick her presidential candidate in 2023, these beautiful qualities would be considered; issues would be there but justice, equity and fairness will prevailed”.