Gov. David Umahi of Ebonyi has assured Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) members of their peaceful existence in the state with no one harassing or disrupting their legitimate activities. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that political tension has heightened in Ebonyi since Umahi’s defection to the All Progressives Congress (APC) with resentment and bickering pervading the atmosphere. Umahi gave the assurance on Friday in Abakaliki in a broadcast to the people after a security meeting with heads of security agencies in the state. According to the governor, PDP will exist peacefully in the state provided its faithful desist from acts that jeopardise the prevailing peace and harmonious existence in the state. “I have reported allegation of some Ebonyi people engaging cultists and the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB) members to start killings and crisis in the state. “This is in the name of fighting the governor and the state government,” he said. He alleged that some top former and serving officials of government were fomenting the trouble. “I decide to share this information with security agencies because every governor in the state has been fought by these same people. Umahi said that the situation made him to reach out to security agencies to assure the concerned individuals and the PDP that no one would harass them in the state. “A stitch in time saves nine; we are bringing this information to the public so that if it is true and starts happening, it will be known that I shared it with security agencies and the public. “I also tasked security agencies to implement policies on vehicle-tinted glasses, use of siren and police escorts. “Many people who use escorts are not entitled to them and these sets of people show power when they get to the communities with their security escorts shooting into the air. “We do not want this to continue and the security agencies should dispossess them of such security details used to harass innocent citizens,” he said.(NAN) Special Assistant on Capital City to Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State, Hon. Stanley Okoro Emegha has described the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has the only political party that has genuine intentions for the masses. He noted that regardless of the propaganda against the PDP by the All Progressives Congress… August 12, 2017 In "News" By Uchenna Ugwu #TrackNigeria: Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi on Saturday vowed to discharge his duties with the fear of God, if elected for a second tenure. Umahi made the vow during the grand-finale of the Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP) campaign rally, held at Uburu Secondary School in Ohaozara Local… February 10, 2019 In "News" Gov. David Umahi of Ebonyi has faulted the national leadership of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) for recognising the factional leadership produced in the state during the  April 25 delegates conference. Umahi faulted the action in his letter to NLC President Ayuba Wabba, dated May 10.Wabba had in his letter… May 21, 2019 In "News"