By Chimezie Godfrey The military has destroyed bandits’ camp and neutralized several of them along the Kaduna-Abuja expressway. The Coordinator, Defence Media Operations, Defence Headquarters Abuja, Maj Gen John Enenche stated this on Wednesday. He said,”The Land and Air Components of Operation THUNDER STRIKE have neutralized several armed bandits in a joint offensive operation to clear identified bandits’ camp around Kuku area of Kagarko Local Government Area along the Kaduna-Abuja Expressway axis of Kaduna State. “The operation was executed yesterday, 17 November 2020, on the heels of credible Human Intelligence reports indicating that a cluster of huts and other structures at the location served as hideout for a notorious bandits’ leader, named “Major”, along with his fighters. “The first wave of the Air Component’s airstrikes, which involved 6 Nigerian Air Force (NAF) aircraft undertaking 5 missions in a total of 13 sorties, commenced at dawn and targeted the cluster of huts housing “Major”. The attack aircraft hit some of the target structures and neutralized some of the bandits.” Enenche disclosed that the second wave of attacks was executed by NAF helicopter gunships which, while continuing to engage the bandits’ location, also provided close air support to the Land Component as they advanced from Kagarko via Kuku into the bandits’ enclave. According to him, this paved way for the ground troops to overrun and destroy the camp without effective resistance from the bandits. He added that a NAF Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) aircraft remained airborne providing situational awareness for the troops throughout the operation. Enenche commended the Land and Air Components for their professionalism and urged them to remain resolute in the conduct of operations in order to eradicate all armed bandits. “Furthermore, the Armed Forces of Nigeria sincerely appreciates the continued support and cooperation of all well-meaning Nigerians, as it keeps up the tempo of operations to defeat all enemies of the Nation,” Enenche stated.