The House of Representatives Committee on Public Account on Friday expressed readiness to act on the queries raised on financial impropriety by the Auditor-General for the Federation to Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDA) of government. Rep. Wole Oke, the Chairman of the committee, disclosed this in Abuja at its resumed hearing of complaints bothering on accountability by MDAs. He said that the Auditor-General for the Federation had laid his annual report, part one, in respect of 2018 financial year before the committee. He added that the annual report came along with performance audit report on Federal Road Maintenance Agency (FERMA) on maintenance of federal roads. He added that the Auditor-General had also laid his performance Audit report on the budgeting process in Nigeria before the committee. “So we now have these three documents in our kitty and we shall start considerations of the queries on issues raised by inviting the relevant MDAs of government. “Including on the spot assessment inspection of the projects where the Auditor-General has cast doubt or aspersions on, so that we can have value for money reports Oke, therefore, called on the clerk to convey the queries on the issues raised to the affected MDAs and schedule days for their appearance. Oke said that the affected MDAs would begin appearance from Nov. 30, to answer to issue raised in the query by the Auditor-General. (NAN) The House of Representatives Committee on Public Account on Tuesday queried some Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) of government over what it described as extra-budgetary expenditure. Rep. Oluwole Oke, the Chairman of the committee and other members grilled the Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) of the MDAs during an investigative hearing… November 17, 2020 In "News" The House of Representatives Committee on Public Accounts has warned heads of Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) of Government over non-rendition of audited accounts to the Auditor General of the Federation (AGF). Rep Wole Oke, Chairman of the Committee handed down the warning on Tuesday in Abuja. Oke condemned the… November 25, 2020 In "News" The Senate Committee on Public Accounts says Heads of Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) must appear before it, to answer queries raised in the audited reports by the Office of Auditor-General for the Federation (OAUGF). Sen. Mathew Urhoghide (PDP-Edo), Chairman of the Committee said this, when officials of some MDAs… February 11, 2020 In "News"