A pro-Buhari group, called The Zikist-Buharist-Movement (ZBM), has lauded Gov. Dave Umahi of Ebonyi for dumping PDP and strengthening the South-East-cum-North political alliance. This commendation is contained in a statement issued on Sunday at Enugu jointly signed by ZBM’s Chairman and Secretary, Chief Stanley Ohajiruka and Mr Godwin Onwusi, respectively. The statement also lauded Umahi for the brave move, adding that the singular move had revived the Zikist cum North alliance, a political alliance which it claimed had in the first and second republiics stabilised the country. “For us, Gov. Umahi, by placing the interest of the South-East region above his personal political interest, is a Daniel come to judgment. “He has opened the floodgate for Eastern-Northern regions alliance. “We are impressed that Umahi jettisoned his PDP’s comfort zone of the past two decades where he was Ebonyi State PDP Chairman, Deputy Governor and now Governor, because of the collective interest of the South-East. “It is a welcome development, especially when ZBM understands that he is leading the squad of his governor colleagues and other prominent Igbo leaders to reinforce the Zikist-cum-North alliance,’’ it said. The statement, however, frowned at the fact that PDP exploited South-East people’s votes without commensurate reward system. According to the statement, for instance, PDP treated our elder statesman, the founder of the party, Dr Alex Ekwueme, of blessed memory shabbily and abandoned federal roads in the South-East. “The PDP made false promises over the 2nd Niger bridge, and mischievously equating transient offices doled out to our people as important as infrastructural development to an industrious people,’’ it said. The statement also said that Umahi’s move would enhance and activate the ancient Zikist-cum-North alliance more than any other alchemy. “Umahi is the pilot of gale of defections we are expecting from the region to APC hovering in the air. “Don’t forget that the Zikist Eagle alliance started during the 2019 Presidential Election, where for the first time our great party, the APC made 25 per cent threshold in three out of five states in the South-East.” Going further, ZBM said that “politics is a game of numbers’’, adding that today Ebonyi had left the leaking umbrella of the PDP to the golden broom of the APC. “Tomorrow we are expecting Abia, Anambra, Enugu and others from the South South, including the big fish from the Niger Delta. “ZBM appeals to Nigerian electorate to watch out for the renewal of the APC and strengthening of our fledgling democracy. “We appreciate Gov. Umahi and others who are adding to the missing tonic of Northern cum Eastern regions alliance,’’ he said. (NAN)