Disturbed by the recurring crises rocking the All Progressives Party ( APC), the Chairman of the Progressive Governors Forum (PGF) and Kebbi State Governor, Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, was recently involved in some moves to amicably resolve the thorny issues in the party. It was part of these bold diplomatic moves of the forum that, Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu met with President Muhammadu Buhari at the State House in Abuja. At the all-important high level meeting, the governors presented to the President, their position on the leadership crisis rocking the party. Governor Bagudu, was in the company of the governors of Plateau and Jigawa States; Simon Lalong and Abubakar Badaru, respectively. Briefing State House Correspondents, Bagudu had indicated the support of the President for the convening of meetings by all necessary organs for the purposes of finding peace for the party. Bagudu said, ” President Buhari gave the APC governors the assurances that all necessary steps to restore peace and cohesion back to the party would be taken. “Though the President would not break ranks and force his will down the party leadership’s throat, he said he was abreast with all the developments within the party and was willing to make the moves that will calm the storms. “The reason for our visit is to discuss with him as our party leader, as the leader that millions of Nigerians trust, to discuss party issues and the position of the Progressive Governors to support all steps to unify and bring about peaceful resolution in our party, the All Progressives Congress. “Mr President listened attentively and discussed with us, as a father, as a party leader and he gave us all the assurance we needed to know that resolution of contentious issues will soon be arrived at. “I think our party, the All Progressives Congress is a party that believes in dialogue and contentious issues arise when you are dialoguing.” The PGF Chairman further recalled that, it was because of the sanctity, which President Buhari attaches to constitutionalism, that the party held its national convention. ” Literally, at the same time, we are holding primaries because Mr. President has always said that we told Nigerians that our party is going to be a party of due process and we will do that no matter the challenge of the moment. “So, young people express their views by demonstrating, members of the party challenging court processes shows that the people are free to express their views. And dissent is not to be suppressed. ” What is important is that all will be taken on board in arriving at a conclusion that will be to the satisfaction of most party members and indeed Nigerians. “At all times Mr. President has shown that he is a democrat, he is not running the party .Yes, he is the party leader, he allows party organs to do and decide what should be done. “He is very hesitant to use his standing even as party leader, talk less of his authority as Mr. President of the country to direct things, but at all times, he has been alive to the issue. ” And like I said earlier, I believe with the encouragement he gave us this morning, with the level of details he has about all what is happening and the number of people he has listened to and heard, I believe that whatever needs to be done, including the possibility of calling any organ of the party that is necessary for the resolution of lingering issues, will be done immediately,” Bagudu, averred . The crucial meeting between the PGF members and President Muhammadu Buhari was however held behind closed doors.