President Muhammadu Buhari has dispatched the National Security Adviser (NSA), Major- Gen. Babagana Mungono (rtd) and Security Chiefs to commiserate with the Katsina State Government and people of the state over the recent bandits’ attacks. Mungono, who led the team on a sympathy visit to Gov. Aminu Masari, said the delegation was dispatched to commiserate with the government and people of the state. He noted that part of their mandate was also to meet with the governor and relevant stakeolders, to enable them map out strategies on the way forward and proffer solutions to the unfortunate occurances. The NSA disclosed that President Buhari was sad over the security challenges in Katsina State, northwest region and other parts of the country. “As professionals in security matters; we will not relent in our efforts to ensure that we nip the evil on the bud,” he said. Munguno added that the team had assessed the security situation on ground, adding that more strategies would be adopted to tackle the situation. Meanwhile,  the NSA, Babagana Monguno and the Security Chiefs, paid condolence visit to the Emirs of Katsina, Alhaji Abdulmumin Usman and Daura, Alhaji Faruk Umar-Faruk. Monguno, who spoke at the palace of the Emir of Katsina, told the monarchs that the team was dispatched on the presidential order to commiserate with people of the state. He reiterated the Federal Government’s commitment to end the bandits’ attack and restore peace to the state. Responding, Usman who spoke on behalf of the two emirs thanked the delegation for the visit, saying that some disgruntled elements were sabotaging President  Buhari administratio ‘s effort toward peace building in the state. The monarch enjoined the media to ensure  accuracy, faurness and objectivity in their reportage of incidents and security situation in the country. Monguno was accompanied in the visit by the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Muhammad Adamu; the Chief of Defence Intelligence, AVM Muhammad Usman, the Director General of National Intelligence Agency (NIA), Ahmad Rufai and the Director, Department of State Security (DSS) Yusuf Bichi. The team arrived Sokoto at about 3.30pm where they headed to the Government House.