 (UPDATED) The ruling All Progressives Congress, APC has disclosed  that the Deputy National Chairman (South), Sen. Abiola Ajimobi will serve as the party’s Acting National Chairman. National Publicity Secretary of APC, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, revealed   this in a statement Tuesday night. He said the decision  came after the National Working Committee received the news indicating that the Appeal Court has upheld the suspension of the Party’s National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole by a Federal Capital Territory (FCT) High Court pending the determination of the substantive suit. The APC spokesman further said, “Guided by advice from the Party’s legal department in line with the provisions of Section 14.2. (iii) of the Party’s constitution, the Deputy National Chairman (South), Sen. Abiola Ajimobi will serve as the Party’s Acting National Chairman. “According to Section 14.2. (iii),of the APC constitution, the Deputy National Chairman, North/South ‘Shall act as the National Chairman in the absence of the National Chairman from his zone’” , the statement said. Meanwhile, Senator Lawal Shuaibu (APC Deputy National Chairman denied social media post which claimed that he would resume as acting national chairman as soon as he receives the judgement suspending Oshiomhole. Shuaibu was quoted on social media as having claimed that,”I will resume office as the Acting National Chairman as soon as I receive the judgement of the appeal court. Obaseki’s resignation will be rejected by my party. A sitting governor is an asset to our great party” But Shuaibu said in a counter statement that the assertions above did not emanate from him.  “The message currently circulating in the (social) media and credited to Senator Lawal Shuaibu, Deputy National Chairman (North) of APC did not emanate from him.“At no time did he grant any such interview to the press. While believing in the tenets of democracy and the rule of law, and indeed an avid respecter of the judiciary processes, Senator Shuaibu will wait for the relevant party organ to decide on such issues as it affects the party and will stand by the decisions of his leaders,” his associate said in a statement sent to Newsdiaryonline, Tuesday night. 