 A new acting Corps Commander has been appointed for the the Nigerian Army Medical Corps, the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports. The handing and taking over ceremony was held on Monday at the Headquarters, Nigerian Army Medical Corps, Bonny Camp cantonment, Lagos. The ceremony witnessed by Col. S. J. Adama, the outgoing Acting Corps Commander, who handed over to Col. I.B. Solebo. The new Acting Corps Commander said that his vision was to have a highly regimented, professional and accountable Corps in the delivery of its services. “You will agree with me that the amount of financial resources devoted to and already expended by the Chief of Army Staff (COAS) on healthcare infrastructure in our medical establishment is enormous. “The Corps is unparalleled in the recent history of the Nigerian Army. As such, there is no gainsaying that to whom much is given much is expected. “By extension, performance, excellence and efficiency in the delivery of prompt and enviable healthcare to our officers, soldiers and their families is therefore not an exception, but the norm henceforth,” he said. He said that regimentation was the bedrock of military indoctrination and panacea for victory at warfare and success in peacetime administration. Solebo implored all personnel to reflect on the ethics, customs and tradition of the military and abide strictly by the rules to foster an enviable Corps for the future. He urged all corps commanders to ensure that all military personnel in their various units engaged in physical activities as stipulated by the Nigerian Army to improve the performance at work. According to him, to improve the performance at work, a physically fit body and mentally alert mind are essential. “As such, all commanders are to ensure all military personnel of the Corps in their respective units actively participate in physical activities by way of morning physical training. “And also evening games as stipulated by the NA except while on duty as the current COVID-19 pandemic settles. “Participation in this activities are to be reflected in the PER’s of all personnel by their respective directors and commanders. “All officers and soldiers of the Corps will also work to maintain their body mass index prescribed by the ASA. “There would be special focus on health care deliver in the North East including the Reference hospital in the AOR. “With the goal of reinforcing and bringing clinical, and surgical expertise closer to the location of injured among troops. “Such that intervention is faster with the expected effect of further reduction in morbidity and mortality,” he said. Solebo also said that all medical units would benefit from declaring their average drug usage on a monthly or quarterly basis. According to him, drug availability on the NHIS in our hospitals and the scourge of fake drugs had become a topical issue. “All medical units would benefit from declaring their average drug usage on a monthly or quarterly basis. This would aid budgeting and efficient use of primary funds including capitation and fee for service. “A drive towards centralisation of drug procurement from a few validated sources would be urgently explored, whilst our drug manufacturing unit continue to explore capacity building and expansion to meet the drug consumption need of the NA,” he said. Solebo, however, thanked the COAS for counting him worthy of steering the affairs of the Corps, saying that all his efforts would be channelled toward swiftly achieving the vision of the COAS. He also thanked the outgoing Acting Corps Commander on the effort made to reposition the Corps. Present at the event include all Headquarters Directors, Commandants Nigerian Army School of Medical Science, Chief Medical Director 68 Nigerian Army Reference Hospital Yaba. The MD, Nigerian Army Drug Manufacturing Company Limited, the Ag Chief Medical Director Military Hospital Port Harcourt, Heads of Departments and Principal staff officers. (NAN)