 Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, SAN has on Thursday hosted webinar/virtual interactive sessionwith attorneys-general and heads of courts of the 36 states and the federal capital territory. This is contained in a statement issued by Dr. Umar Jibrilu Gwandu, Special Assistant on Media and Public Relations Office of the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, which wasmade available to newsmen in Abuja on Thursday 4th day of June, 2020. In his keynote address at the session, Malami noted that in order to respond to the challenges posed by the pandemic, the Ministry has improved on its ICT infrastructure to enable the Ministry carry outits duties. “The Ministry has completed the establishment of ICT Studios and the deployment of Galaxy Backbone dedicated lines that will facilitate theprosecution of criminal cases as well as the defence of civil cases using the virtual platform”. “As the biggest Law Chamber in Nigeria and if not in Africa, the Federal Ministry of Justice must continue to lead the process of innovation in the administration of justice. To complement thiseffort, the Nigerian Correctional Service is also being engaged on establishment of Studios in the Correctional Centres to make it possible for evidence of suspects in custody to be taken without their physical presence in court. This will ensure that the administrationof justice is not disrupted,” he said. Malami noted that ICT is being introduced in the receipt and processing of correspondence between the Ministry and the generalpublic to further minimize the person-to-person contact between officials of the Ministry and members of the general public. He reiterated the desire to work with stakeholders to articulate a holistic response to the challenges posed by the CoVID-19 pandemic to the administration of justice in the country. The Minister also emphasized that there was need for a paradigm shift in the administration of justice through the deployment of appropriatetechnologies to drive the administration of justice. He said the purpose of the virtual meeting was to provide the platform for engagement and articulation of our collective views on the issuesarising from the CoVID-19 pandemic and harmonise our resolutions onthe way forward. Malami said the advent of CoVID-19 and the efforts to manage its spread and reduce the human and economic devastation occasioned by thepandemic, has made it imperative to adopt systems that will reduce the physical presence or involvement of persons in the judicial processthrough the deployment of technology to achieve the same objective forwhich physical presence was intended,” he said. The Minister noted that the justice system is founded on theconstitutional principle of fundamental rights to fair hearing thatrequires the court to hear and determine cases in public and thephysical presence of the suspects or parties in court. He noted that in view of the COVID-19 situation, it has becomeimperative for the Government to put in place, legislations andpolicies that will engender a justice system that promotessocial/physical distancing through the application of appropriatetechnologies in the dispensation of justice and the promotion of ruleof law. He used the opportunity to commend and appreciate the Heads of Courtsand Attorneys-General who have already started the process ofdeploying and applying virtual court rooms and proceedings to promotesocial distancing and minimize the physical presence of court users.However, there have been arguments as to whether the application ofvirtual court hearing meets the constitutional requirements of fairhearing. “I am of the view that this meeting offers an opportunity for furtherdiscussion on the issue and a common position taken. This is withoutprejudice to the ongoing deliberations in the National Assembly toamend section 36(2) & (3) of the Constitution. As stakeholders, wehave a duty to ensure that the pandemic is not allowed to ground theadministration of justice machinery to a halt. We must continue toforge the needed synergy and collaboration to administer justice inthe face of the pandemic and in line with global best practice”. On measures to decongest Correctional Centres nation-wide, theMinister expressed appreciation that about six thousand, five hundredand ninety (6590) inmates have so far been released through the workof the Presidential Committee on the decongestion of CorrectionalCentres and that of the Presidential Advisory Committee on Prerogativeof Mercy Committee. The Minister said concerted efforts are being made by the FederalGovernment to strengthen judicial and democratic institutions for thebenefit of our people which he described as critical to the attainmentof the anti-corruption drive of the current administration and theoverall improvement in the administration of justice. Malami disclosed that the Federal Government has constitutedCommittees on Implementation of Directive on Designated CorruptionProsecution Courts to actualize the directive of the Chief Justice ofNigeria to Heads of Courts to designate specific courts for theprosecution of all corruption related cases with the aim offast-tracking their completion. He informed the participants that the Federal Government hasestablished a Committee on the Review of Judicial Salaries and conditions of Service principally to ensure that the welfare of judicial officers reflect current realities.