 The
Minister of the FCT, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello has commended members of the
Nigerian Institute of Building (NIB) on their contribution to the development
of the FCT. The
Minister made this commendation when a delegation of the Institute led by its 3rd
National Vice President, Builder Bimbo Kolade, paid a  courtesy visit to
the Federal Capital Territory Administration FCTA. Malam
Bello said that when the history of the FCT will be written the chapter devoted
to the builders will be fairly long. In
his words “If you look at the quantum of buildings, both public and
private, within the FCT, in terms of the period within which they were put up,
I think no city in Nigeria will match what has been put here and all that has
been done with great collaboration by members of the Building Institute and
that’s why your institute is very important in the socio-economic development
of this great country” Speaking on instances of building collapse in the country, the
Minister charged members of the Institute to be firmer and more professional
when enforcing building rules even at the loss of personal income as this will
garner for the builders more credibility and acceptability. He said “As an institution, your code of conduct should make
your members decide if a building shouldn’t be built based on faulty design or
faulty material or faulty location. Let your members say they are not going to
participate. I think if you are able to do that, you will reach a certain level
whereby people will have no option but to believe in you”. The Minister also charged builders to consider other factors
than maximizing returns on investment when building structures. He said that it
was imperative that the comfort and wellbeing of residents are taken into
consideration when building. “I have seen quite a number of buildings here approved by the
relevant FCTA agencies and I always ask them, these massive buildings with so
many shops, how are the people going to park their vehicles? In the event of crisis,
how can people be evacuated? So, I think we should go beyond just trying to get
the maximum utilization of a square meter” Malam Bello said. He said that certain factors such as facilities for physically
challenged people, security and fire-fighting are being taken into
consideration in the construction of public buildings in the FCT today. He
charged the builders to also insist on the inclusion of these factors when
constructing buildings. The
Minister also commended the Institute for the survey of abandoned buildings
 it carried out on behalf of the FCTA saying that integrity tests have
commenced on these buildings and those that fail the tests will be demolished.
“All what we’ve been doing have been guided by your report” the Minister said. Earlier,
the leader of the delegation, Builder Bimbo Kolade had implored the Honourable
Minister to explore recommendations made by the institution in the report on
building collapse in the FCT. He
commended Malam Bello for the support enjoyed by the institute since his
appointment as Minister. Builder Kolade who explained that the Institute had
set aside March 13
as Builders Day in commemoration of the collapse building incidence which
occurred in Lagos in 2019, resulting in the death of 13 underaged children,
said the day was being celebrated to raise consciousness  on the
consequences of neglect of work ethics. Malam
Bello also addressed a large gathering of over 200 builders.