 Comrade Issa Aremu, mni, General Secretary, NUTGTWN has called for an end to what he called the ‘road virus’ killing high and low level Nigerians through several  accidents. Aremu made the call during a condolence  visit to the NUJ Kaduna State Council on the
death of its former Treasurer and Secretary, Chief Dominic Uzu.Speaking during the
visit, he said “I hereby formally commiserate with you on the death of former
Treasurer and Secretary of Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) Kaduna State
Council, Chief Dominic Uzu, the sad event which occurred on Tuesday February 4,
2020 following a tragic fatal accident along Kaduna-Zaria Highway. He
recalled that “Comrade
Dominic Uzu was a tested Journalist. His tragic death was a great loss to the
Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) and his family and all of us his comrades
and friends.  We all bear testimony to his tremendous achievements and
contribution to the growth and development of NUJ in Kaduna State. Aremu
added that “The best way to mourn Comrade Dominic Uzu is to collectively put an
end to cheap and callous wastage of human lives, (low or high alike) on our
roads.  Tears are not just enough.  There is an urgent need to
rebuild our roads and ensure safety rules are observed with a view of reducing
accidents on our roads. He added, “Seeing the poor survivors and dependents of
victims of roads accidents should make us change our perception
of accident victims as mere statistics! In the case of Comrade Dominic Uzu
he left a wife, 4 children and several relatives and several colleagues in NUJ.
The point cannot be overemphasized: Accident victims are agonizing humans
(mothers, fathers, sisters, brothers, bread winners,) with all
the valued human relationships suddenly terminated on account of
avoidable “accidents”. A visit to a typical emergency/casualty ward in our
hospital shows that road accidents do as much violence as terrorism does.
Sudden deaths of working journalists and Nigerians in general further
point to crisis of road governance in Nigeria. Put An End To Road Terrorism Aremu
said, “Nigeria today qualifies as an unofficial global capital of “road
accidents”. Every year, over 39,000 Nigerians die from road crashes. In the
2018 Global Status Report on Road Safety, the World Health Organization (WHO)
estimated road traffic fatalities in Nigeria at 39,802, while the estimated
rate per 100,000 deaths stood at 21.4. Nigeria losses more humans on road
accidents than 11,310 deaths reported in Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone due
to Ebola epidemic! “We
must halt this road-terrorism, or better still road virus called accident. An
accident is defined as happening “unexpected” or “unplanned”. But according to
the Zaria Unit Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Abubakar
Murabus-Tata, the accident which killed Dominic was as a result of
over-speeding, involving two vehicles, (a DAF truck and a Toyota Hiace
commercial Bus) and bad road (potholes). Most  roads are unmotorable.
Drivers are reckless and often our road safety officials are not on duty. When
accidents prove addictive as they are in Nigeria, they are no more
“accidental”. Addictive accidents mean incidents for which the governments at
all levels must be held accountable.  These “accidents” are certainly not
inevitable. It’s time President Muhammadu Buhari declared emergency on
Federal roads. There must be a time  frame to fix all major highways and
halt the ongoing road-murders.” Hails Supreme Court Judgement On Bayelsa Comrade Aremu who is a NEC Member, NLC and  Vice President, Industriall Global Union has also hailed the Supreme
Court Verdisct on Bayelsa state governorship election. Speaking on the saga in
a statement sent to Newsdiaryonline, Aremu said, “Without prejudice to the
expected judgement of the Supreme Court on Imo, I commend the 
Supreme Court, which last Wednesday, upheld its earlier judgement and went
further to fine Chief Afe Babalola (SAN) and Chief Wole Olanipekun (SAN) N30
million each for agreeing to file an application for the review of the apex
court’s judgment on Bayelsa election. He
added, “It is commendable that for once Supreme Court damned what I see
as an increasing dictatorship of some lawyers and desperate politicians
which if not checked might  undermine democracy. “I
also hail the ousted governor-elect of Bayelsa State, David Lyon, for his
statesmanship for accepting the final ruling of Nigeria’s highest court, Supreme
Court that nullified his victory at the November 16th, 2019 governorship
election in the State. “Democracy
tasks all stakeholders to abide by the rule of law if democracy would be
sustainable. Some lawyers are turning courts as temple of justice into
arena of transactions of market place. Endless litigations over
electoral matters must give way to matured political culture which must starts
with respect for finality of court rulings.   After 20 years of democracy,
it’s time to learn from the past experience and avoid the pitfall of how
endless litigations, suits and counter suits helped to undermine the first and
second Republics. He
recalled that  “During the controversial
June 12 crisis, for instance the judiciary was central to the political impasse
which arose over the annulment of the June 12, 1993 presidential election which
Chief Moshood Kashimawo Olawale Abiola was poised to win and Justice Dahiru
Saleh, the Chief Judge of the Federal Capital Territory was in the thick of it
all. Specifically, Justice Bassey Ikpeme who ordered that the election should
not hold on the eve of the historic poll, was one of his judges. In addition,
Saleh ordered Professor Humphrey Nwosu, the chairman of the National Electoral
Commission, to stop announcing the election results almost mid way into the
exercise. Both the bar and the bench must help to deepen democracy not
undermining it through frivolous transactional litigations. “Lastly
politicians must be serious about democratic process but not too serious such
that they can be serious again. Democracy is about compromises. The idea of
demonstrations at EU and American embassies to resolve electoral matters is not
only ill  informed  but unacceptable and must be discouraged.
Americans would not go to Nigerian embassy in Washington to perfect their
electoral processes which indeed are full of imperfections” Aremu said.