The
FCTA has announced new measures to contain the spread of  COVID 19 in the
Territory. The measures were made public in a news briefing by the FCT
Minister, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello in Abuja on Thursday. The
Minister said that these measures were reached during a meeting held earlier in
the Day with officials of the FCTA and relevant security agencies who are in
the forefront in the battle against COVID 19 to review the measures earlier
announced by the FCTA such as restriction on movement, closure of recreation centers
amongst others. Malam
Bello said the new measures which were also based on medical advice will
further strengthen those in the frontlines in the fight against COVID 19. As
part of the new measures to be deployed, the Minister disclosed the constitution
of 5 enforcement teams to ensure compliance of already laid down COVID 19
containment strategies. A
team will monitor and ensure compliance of containment measures in event
centers, night clubs, restaurant and markets. Another   team will
monitor compliance in motor parks, bus terminals and taxis while the third will
monitor and ensure compliance in places of worship. A fourth team will ensure
compliance in educational institutions while the fifth will ensure compliance
at the Area Councils. According
to the Minister, these teams would also be
constituted by the respective Area Council Chairmen in their domains. The whole
idea according to Malam Bello is to “encourage people to comply with the
regulations and where necessary, to enforce, and we have the full support of
all the relevant security agencies” With respect to restaurants and eateries, the Minister said
“restaurants have been directed to provide their services but only in the
manner of allowing customers to take what they call takeaway. Sitting within
enclosed restaurant facilities are discouraged, unless of course within
established hotels where the principle of social distancing will be adopted.” The Minister also announced that businesses can only operate
between the hours of 6 am and 9pm on the advice of security agencies and health
authorities effective from Friday, 27th of March. This new measure according to the Minister “is to, as much
as possible, restrict unnecessary movement and congregation of people,
particularly at night, which is dangerous to all of us”. Another new measure is the establishment of the FCT COVID 19
Situation Room which will ensure effective coordination of all activities of
the containment of the COVID 19 in the FCT. The situation room will  be
domiciled  in the FCT Call Centre. Malam Bello also released the following phone numbers to
the Call Center; 08099936312, 08099936313, 08099936314, 07080631500 and 112
which is the National Emergency number. He encouraged FCT residents to make use of these numbers
and help in the monitoring and prompt divulging of useful information that
might aid the authorities in the fight against the Coronavirus. The Minister also reiterated measures earlier announced on the
operations of market places. He said “I want to also reiterate that all
sections of markets where foodstuffs and other essential items are being sold
would be open. But we are advising and we intend to enforce that customers and
traders in markets, even while transacting essential transactions with
foodstuff, should enforce and consider social distancing” As his parting words the Minister said “It is very important
that for us to jointly fight the COVID 19 pandemic, we all have to work
together, we have to be self-disciplined and enforce social distancing and
restrict movement outside our residences, except under very essential
circumstances.