 The Chairman of the Nigeria
Governors’ Forum and Governor of Ekiti State, Dr John Kayode Fayemi, has
outlined the provision of economic opportunities for the people as top
priorities for governors all over the country.He said it is  the key area where foreign missions in Nigeria
must assist, if their intention is to help in the liberation of Nigerians from
poverty, hunger and disease. Fayemi  disclosed  this to the Czeck Ambassador to Nigeria Marek
Skolil who called on him at his Abuja residence on Tuesday. The NGF Chairman who emphasized that
“there is no democracy without rule of law” also philosophised that “elections
do not a democracy make”. The Governor who was enumerating what governance at
the subnational level entails for the country hinted that “We need to increase
economic opportunity at the subnational level for the safety and security of
our people because security and welfare is the first job of the government.” He added that, “In the minds of the
people we need more than governance for the goodwill of the people” adding
that, “at the end of the day there are no “Federal Nigerians but state
citizens”, so those who are friends of Nigeria must understand the two level
strata of our government and aid the one that best touches the heart of the problem
as it were. Placing a finger on the problems and
diagnosing the remedies Governor Fayemi theorized that “You cannot extricate
violence from poverty. Someone who is less educated is a lot more risk-averse
than someone who is educated and can read the future and therefore the thrust
is to get more people out of poverty and illiteracy, as quickly as possible for
good governance to germinate on an even level in the country.” This according to him is why “States
are interested in agriculture, manufacturing, education and other economic
generators that improve the quality of life of our people. The more qualified
the people the more accountable the governors would be because qualified people
will be able to hold those in government to put their foot to fire for the
benefit of all.” Reacting to Ambassador Skolil’s
assertion that underscores his visits around the country to witness Nigeria’s
elections, where he described Nigeria’s democracy as a learning curve for him
and his country, Fayemi asserted that “We’ve proved that we are not just a
democracy that writes election results and the country is gradually emerging
strong among regions where one must prove his mettle to win, by propounding a
strong manifesto and agenda for the people and genuinely convincing them that
one is there for their general good. He thanked the Czeck Ambassador for
visiting at a time he did and went ahead to announce that he specifically flew
to Abuja from Ekiti to honor this invitation because of his belief that the
partnership that can bring bonds at the subnational level will benefit
Nigerian, while at the same time saying that he is not talking for the Federal
Government but that as a key official of the President’s campaign team he is
not unaware of the importance of such partnerships to Nigerians collectively. “We are a very large country. The
partnership at subnational is just as important as that at the national level,
Governor Fayemi emphasized, adding that git is good that you are opening your
coast in Africa. It’s a measure of your faith to open more missions as not many
countries would wanna do so. Governor Fayemi had started his
discussion by insisting that the NGF is a bipartisan organisation. Earlier, the Ambassador who was
accompanied by his embassy’s Political Secretary Maria Nwanyanwu who came
decked in Ankara to buttress her links with Nigeria expressed excitement on the
prospects of helping Nigeria in any way he and his government can. “I’ll be delighted as a duty to help
in any way.  I have witnessed in my short stay in Nigeria that there are
areas where we can intervene but most importantly, I learnt after witnessing
elections here that there are things to learn from Nigeria as well.” “I must emphasize, with no false
modesty that your political environment was very vibrant when I witnessed it
for my personal experience”, the Ambassador stated. He told Governor Fayemi that “I
would like to remind you of the scope of Czeck Republic in Nigeria. Since the
90s we have been rebuilding our ties with sub-Saharan Africa. For example, we
can be of help to Nigeria not just in the area of security but, also, we can
have both feet on the ground on trade. Nigeria is 2nd only after South Africa
in our relationships with Africa. “Our mission has a broad regional
scope. We’ve been busy finding our new identity. We are back in Africa and feel
well-acquainted here but at the same time we must feel how you see the
challenges of European countries in your continent.”