 The former military governor of Kano state Ahmad Daku said
the abortive coup d’etat engineered by Gideon Orkar in 1990 was  the major reason behind formation of Islamic
Forum of Nigeria. Islamic Forum of Nigeria is an umbrella of Muslims
organisations with national secretariat in Kano. Gen Daku, a retired military general revealed this on Sunday
during 36th Annual General Meeting of the Forum held at its National
headquarters in Kano. On April 22, 1990, Orkar staged a violent coup against the
government of former military president Ibrahim Babangida. However, Orkar and 41 other conspirators were convicted of
treason and subsequently executed by a firing squad on July 27, 1990. Mr Daku recalled that, the coup plotters’ pronouncement of
expelling predominantly Muslim core Northern states of Kano, Katsina, Sokoto,
Bauchi and Borno from Nigeria, necessitated late Hassan Usman-Katsina, Usman
Jibrin, Aminu Dantata and other Northern intellectuals to set up Islamic Forum
of Nigeria. According to him part of the objective of the forum was to
champion Muslim cause, promote unity and youth empowerment. He observed that “The Forum has conducted series of
Islamic lectures on problems of Nigeria, how they affect us are being addressed
especially during Ramadan lectures.” In his remarks the executive secretary of the forum, Salisu
Shehu said during the period under review, two sets if Ramadan lectures were
successfully conducted on Dangers of drugs abuse, ways of combating it, and
moral decadence. “The forum on Sunday 27th October, 2019, held
interactive meeting with Islamic Organizations in Kano state over the Kano-9
kidnapped and abducted children. The meeting lasted for about three hours and
was attended by 34 representatives from 21 Non Governmental Organizations
(NGOs), Community Based Organisations (CBOs) and Faith Based Organisations
(FBOs). “Furthermore, the forum submitted memorandum to the
commission of inquiry into the cases of missing persons in Kano state.
Subsequently, the commission invited the forum and Alhaji Hussaini Ibrahim,
Alhaji Ado Muhammad and Alhaji Sale Adamu Kwaru attended and defended the
submission,” Mr Shehu revealed. The executive secretary who advocated for reviving the good
religious values, recalled how Muslims were perceived as most upright and
morally sound among Nigerians due to their honesty and hard work.