 The
much-awaited citizen awareness campaign for the monitoring and safeguarding of
constituency and other government projects in the 36 states of the federation
commences today. The
campaign tagged : My Constituency, My Project! was launched by ICPC late
last year 2019 in Abuja, the nation’s capital, in collaboration with the
National Orientation Agency (NOA) to remediate observed lapses in the execution
of constituency projects after the conclusion of the first phase of 
Constituency Projects Tracking Group exercise led by the Commission. The
result of that exercise revealed, besides other corruption-linked factors, a
significant lack of awareness among community people of the fundamental
objectives and principles behind constituency projects. This information gap
has naturally led to misconceptions and lack of understanding of government’s
role and intentions concerning constituency projects. The
very concept and implementation of constituency projects is evidence of
government’s good intentions for grass roots people. The aim is to spread
development to all nooks and crannies of the country through the intervention
of the people’s representatives in the Legislature who expectedly should be in
tune with their areas of need. ICPC
and NOA, given their mutual mandate which  overlaps at the duty to
mobilise citizens for good governance, are determined to alter the narrative
and bring to fruition an active and committed citizenry desirous of ensuring
the quality completion and protection of government projects in their
communities. The
My Constituency, My Project! campaign which is supported by ActionAid will feature town hall meetings, a
documentary, radio jingles, printed information and enlightenment materials as
well as other potent communication tools. These
tools have been designed to provide avenues for feedback, enquiries and
suggestions by community people to government through ICPC and other relevant
agencies. Importantly, there is a dedicated toll-free line  0800-2255-4272
which citizens are encouraged to call to get information. The
campaign is also designed to properly guide community people in the course of
monitoring projects  to avoid antagonising contractors and other persons
who are in the chain of conception and execution. The
goal is simply to ensure that both the government and the community receive
value for money, and that ownership and sponsorship of such projects are not
ascribed to the wrong entities. It
is hoped that as the campaign progresses, the song in every community person’s
heart will be My Constituency, My Project! which will lead to effective,
efficient and quality delivery of all government projects across the land.