 Vivian Bellonwo, acting Executive Director, Social
Action x-rays the anti-corruption battles of the Muhammadu Buhari
administration. In this  interview with
Newsdiaryonline, the civil society activist slams the alleged  lack of transparency over the recent
$22.7billion loan approved for  the
Federal Government by Nigeria’s Senate.She hints that civil society
organizations,CSOs will sue the Federal Government over the  approved loan request. Excerpts: By Danlami Nmodu Q: The government has told us
that focus on economy is a major pillar of the Muhammadu Buhari government. Four
years on plus an additional year now, how has the economy performed in your
judgement? A: Well the issue of the
performance of the economy is something that is there for everyone to see. I do
not think that we have made any significant progress in economic development,
when you look at all the indices.Just the other day, the (Federal Bureau of)
Statistics reported that for the first time in six years we have recorded trade
deficit, there is imbalance. So even that sector is recording bleak outlook.
And then you look at other integral parts of the economy, look at power. Power
has not improved. We’ve not had any significant improvement in power supply. Industries,
small scale industries, medium scale industries are still struggling with power
to support their production. The same applies to infrastructure
sector.Look  at roads, the  state of our roads is still appalling. In fact
when you travel on some parts of Nigerian roads, it looks as if bandits now
profit from the appalling state  of roads
because that’s where they ply their trade now.They line up all these terrible
roads and they grab people..These are the indices and indicators that  naturally build into the economy to indicate
an economy that is progressive, an economy that is flourishing.But when all
these component parts are not performing well, when they are all bleak, what do
you expect that economy to be like? Q:  But Government celebrates the fact that they
brough the country out of recession. Is that not an achievement? A: ..Look.. we are not  celebrating figures, figures that are
manufactured from the moon.What we are looking at are realities.Everyday living
realities of Nigerians.Just look at in the past two years.Let me not go even
farther.Two years, three years, can you see the number of Nigerians that have
committed suicide for one economic reason or the other because the quality of
life keeps going down.Whem people lose hope,losing hope in daily living, these
are the kinds of thing that you see.Everyday we are confronted with somebody
just walking and all of a sudden he jumps under the  bridge. These are not good tales.These are
not positive tales that indicate that things are alright with the economy of a
society.These are  strains, these are
signs of health strains by any economic standards. Q: What of the claims by the
government that it is also investing in infrastructure and  reconstructing roads, railways and all of
that.Is that not part of attempts to boost the economy? A: Yes, if only it’s being done
in a manner and in a way that is perceptible. But in this case, when out of
hundred thousand kilometer roads, you have done like ten, it is still a drop of
water in an ocean, the impact is still 
very far-fetched. We haven’t had any significant improvement in
infrastructure. The roads,if you travel from Abuja here through Lokoja through
Kogi ,travel through  Edo, the roads are
still terrible despite the quantum of money that you keep borrowing everyday in
the name of road reconstruction and infrastructural reconstruction. Q: And talking of borrowing,
the Federal Government has asked for and the Senate has approved another   loan  of $22.7b. Do you think it is not justifiable
given the challenges you have identified? A: It is a disaster. It is a
disaster of monumental proportions. Q; To ask for the loan? A: This recently approved loan,
that is one of the worst. In fact it is not one of the worst, it is the worst
disservice that this administration has done to this country. This loan.. Q: You mean the $22.7bn A: Yes the $22.7billion .The
disastrous impact on Nigerians, on the economy, on the lives of both yourself
and myself and generations to come is not something that we can begin to sit
here and quantify Q: Why do you think it is
disastrous? A: There are so many reasons; and before now we had adduced…Look when this loan memo came up, we made several representations, several calls to the National Assembly, to the Senate and we adduced several reasons why this request is simply not in the interest of the common man. It is not in the interest of Nigerians for several reasons. One, when you look at the issue of social accountability, Nigeria has not been known to effectively, properly account for public resources. We have had several loans in the past borrowed in the name of power to fund power infrastructure; we ‘ve had the ones that are meant to fund infrastructure such as close circuit television, we ve had  the ones for roads reconstruction,several that have run into billions which till date you can hardly point at anyone and say yes, this is what that loan money was used for. ..Let me take you slightly back just last year when the Senate was doing the budget defence.Then, the amount for debt servicing came before the Committee for budget defence  and the minister of  finance was summoned, because there were several loans that Nigerians were repaying that  were practically eating up the budget of the country.So they started asking questions. They came across so many of those. A specific one was one was over $500million that was meant for Abuja CCTV installation, that is installation of close circuit television and all that. On paper, good.These are systems that should support security.With the close circuit television installed in strategic parts of the city, it can help to bust some crimes and all that.It was laudable.And Nigeria has been repaying ostensibly the loan for the installation of (CCTV).But then, they started asking questions when the issue came up.We have been paying this loan for several years now.And they asked the minister, where and where are these CCTV?Where are they in FCT, we are  all  in FCT? And the minister couldn’t provide any answer.She simply said well , she is not sure  it exists, but that the loans are being repaid and that her predecessors have been repaying it and she simply inherited it ..This is just one of the several loans Iam talking about.Several loans have been taken in this country without any implementation and nobody has held anyone to account.That loan is a failure,it failed and nobody has been asked to account for it.It has gone into private pockets.There is no CCTV,the country doesn’t have the money and nobody  is asking any question.And that is the same fear that we have towards this $22.7 billion, because like I told you earlier, the country does not have any active, effective social accountability mechanism. And so the process of  good tracking and accounting for this $22bn is far fetched. Q:But the Senate President has
assured us that the Senate would ensure that the expenditure of this loan is
monitored.Are you not sure of their capacity to track the proper  application 
of the loan? A:We do not have any reason to
believe the Senate President.Yes.Why do I say so? I said so because when this
issue  was brought before the floor of
the Senate, majority of the Senators wanted to subject this issue to critical
examination,which is the way it is supposed to be.They wanted to subject it to
unbiased debate.There questions that are surrounding it.For instance,what are
the terms?What are the conditionalities of this loan? How many years, what is
the duration? What are the interest rates?You can’t just go to somebody and say
borrow me money and then the person will tell you, ok you will have the money
but then, later whatever condition I give you, you will abide by it and pay and
then you will accept like that, take it and go home.That is the kind of crazy
thing you have done with this.The majority of the lawmakers wanted to subject
this thing to a reasonable debate,critical debate so that we can look at the
areas perhaps where this could be good, this may not augur well for the
country. Q:I  recall there was commotion A:Exactly and he  shot it down, the Senate President did not buy
into that.What he did was to quickly collapse the House into a closed session
and comfortably shut out those  critical
voices that would have subjected this 
request to transparent scrutiny.So at the end of the day we are having a
loan request that has been approved and then they said the conditionalities and
the terms can be sent later Q: But the government has been
assuring us that it will expend public funds diligently and with responsibility.Are
you not comfortable with the government’s records of expenditure? A: Certainly not.Certainly not,
because even at the level of the budget, I mean we’ve seen the fisticuff we had
with the budget.Budget implementation had never at any time  gone past 50 , or 60 per cent and no proper
accountability.The moment the approval is made on paper there, everybody goes
to sleep Q; Let’s put it bluntly, you
mean even under Buhari’s regime that is fighting corruption, there is no proper
accountability? A:Absolutely not, absolutely not. Q:But the chief campaign issue
and the pillar of the government is anti-corruption A:What corruption are we
fighting? Many of the MDAs that are even involved, they don’t even make any
pretences about it. They don’t make any apologies. Recall that last month or
so, it was revealed that many of the MDAs for years they did not have audited
report Q: We reported that first A: None of their activities has
been audited.They just come, take public funds and you go expend as you wish
and the following year, you come again.Year after year, no
accountability.Nobody asks you questions.You just come yearly and take your
allocation and go home. Q: What do you  think is responsible for this sluggishness
towards the government’s anti-corruption drive even by the MDAs? Is it because
they think they can go scot free? A Yes, because people have been
going scot-free.Yes.So it tells you that we have not fought or matched words
with the anti-corruption mantra  as  projected. That the adminstration has not
matched words with actions. Q: Despite the imprisonment
and trial of people? A: Because if it had been matched
with actions, these Ministries, Departments and Agencies that administer public
trust will not boldly refuse to account. Some of them when they summon them for
budget defence, they don’t even come. Q: Why do you think there is
this perception that the anti-corruption war is not going anywhere? Why,  what’s wrong with it? A: It’s because of things such as
this. Ministries, Departments  and
Agencies are running for years ,as in years, without any accountability,
without any auditing. So where is it.These are the things that feed into such
perception. In this case, it’s not even just a perception, these are realities. Q; But EFCC and ICPC keep
telling us they are doing their jobs diligently, you don’t believe them? A: I don’t need to believe them.What
they need to do,they need to do what they need to do, they are effective.Look,
they may have their own challenges, they may have their own issues and all of
that.But to a large extent, their activities and their operations have still
not met standards, they still fall below average. Q:They have recovered funds,
they have succeeded in getting sentences for some former governors and they are
still making efforts to repatriate some funds. Yet, what else do they need to
do? A: That is what Iam saying, corrupt
people that are more than ten thousand and then you jail three or four and you
go home celebrating it? You recover looted funds to the tune of billions of
Dollars and then you cannot even account for what you have recovered. Now even
the Abacha loot, you can see the fisticuff that has gone into it. Nobody knows
what is even being recovered and nobody knows where it has gone into. It’s just
like getting from a leaking pocket and putting it straight into another leaking
pocket. It’s like recycling loot…So it has not been up to standard. They may
have made one or two successes which I give to them. Yes fine, but then, the
tempo, the net should be widened not just focus on one politician or the other.
The MDAs, the quantum of corruption that goes on in MDAs is incredible and they
are not effectively looking into them. They have gotten so many leads. Several
whistleblowing leads have been given to them, what have they done with it? They
need to pick these up and run with them. Q:So is there too much focus
on fight against corruption that the real corruption itself is being
overlooked? A: That what I have just said..
we don’t  even appear to be getting at
the real corruption.Look the heart of every government’s administration is the
civil service structure.That is the bedrock, that is the mechanism  that runs it.And when this is still tied
down,bogged down, all the processes are still bogged down in corruption, we
need to unbundle the civil service and a whole lot of process,even the
procurement process and everything associated with it is still not subjected to
transparency. Q: The impression I get   from you is that the Buhari anti-corruption
fight has not made much impact A: Absolutely.Yes. Q: So what do you think they
need to do because that is the major pillar of 
the regime? What should they do to earn your respect and the respect of
people like you in the fight against corruption,what do you require from them? A: Some people argue that
corruption is not only in Nigeria, that corruption is virtually in all the
countries of the world .And so the one in Nigeria is not a case in isolation. Well,Iam
almost tempted to go with Magu that corruption is the cause of everything
including….. It is like a hydra headed monster.It has tentacles that  are linked to everything…But the organization
needs to match words with actions Q: You mean the EFCC? A: The anti-corruption bodies,
even the police. Under normal circumstances, Police is an important instrument
of fighting corruption.But  what do we
have today..? Q: Before we round up I want
to go back to this loan issue. Given the matter in which the $22.7 loan was
handled, how easy or difficult to it make tracking the expenditure by CSOs as
events unfold? Will it be easy or difficult? A: It’s never been easy. It’s
never been easy tracking loans. We have worked on debts and loans for decades
now and to even get the basic information ..  is like passing the elephant through the eyes
of a needle. Like the case of the Sukuk bond, the N100m sukuk bond, we wrote
FOI to the minister, we made specific demands for details of that loan, we
requested for details, including  the
conditionalities and terms of repayment attached to it and all of that. There was
no  response, no significant response. The
same was the case  for other loans. We
usually write to DMO or Minister for Finance, requesting for details of the
said loans so that we could follow up, go to those areas and monitor. And
so  having access to  information on those loans is very critical
for civil society to be able to track. But this information is often not
available.What you just have is a generalized and summarized information which
does not give you specifics on what you needed to know to track these loans.But
then, we’ll continue to press…There are options that are open to us: FOIs , and
in this case we are also considering a litigation actually because of the
quantum of money that is involved. Q: You mean this $22.7 billion A: Yes Q:  You are considering litigation against the
government? A: Yes we are considering  going to court to compel the withholding of
this loan or this money until all the information, all the details become
clear. We need to understand, we need to know the conditions attached to this
loan. We need to know.. Q: Who will  you be suing, the FG? A:Yes the Federal Government.We
need to know the conditions that are attached to this, we need to know what
plan does  government have to repay this.
Because we fear that what this administration simply wants to do is just to
fritter away this quantum of loan. Q You mean that CSOs may sue
FG over $22billion loan? A: Absolutely. In the coming
days, we are looking strongly at that option..Because you need to take much
stronger step to compel the government to be accountable for its
actions.Because we resisted, we called on the national assembly not to approve
this loan because the circumstance around it are not clear but it went ahead
and approved it.Now we will likely approach the court… Q: You mean by a group of
CSOs? A:Yes. Q:Finally, it means that from
all we have said so far, the battle for accountability and transparency in
Nigeria is still not an easy on, despite the fact that we are in a democracy. Right? A:  Yes, Sure Q: Why is it so difficult in a
democracy? A:Because that is the nature of
persons that are in authoriy.Public figures, public servants lack the political
will to match words with actions.When you allow sentiments, when you allow
certain exigencies that might not necessarily be convenient to you to affect
your judgement in deciding  your official
duties, these are the kinds of things you see. Because, in situations where
persons that are close to you are involved in corrupt practices one way or the
other, you are supposed to act unbiasedly.You are supposed to act, irrespective
of who is involved.But in this case, that is not what happens,we still see a
lot of political expediency being placed above national interest ad the interest
of the common man.