By Aondover
Eric Msughter There is no doubt that
the media have the capacity and moral obligation to create awareness and
educate citizen about the counter and prevent act of terrorism by making them
approachable enough so that every citizen can approach them with their
suggestions about how to create a terrorism-free world. In reporting Boko
Haram, the media should give adequate information about activities of Boko
Haram. Such reports should be accurate and objective, free from sensationalism
or religious bias. It is not enough to report on the surface like reporting that
there was bomb blast claiming some innocent lives. According to undisclosed
source many lives and property were lost. The media should not only report
about the blasts and consequent insecurity but should provide context, meaning
and significance to this incessant bomb blasts. This will mould strong opinion
towards addressing this menace and the cause. In the usual straight
news reporting, it is the usual he said, she said, eye-witnesses said; a
usually-reliable-source confirmed, etc. none of the reports went further to
give more than quotes from those in authority, the victims and sometimes from
security operatives. What the audience gets from the mostly straight news
stories are largely second-hand reports that hardly give insights into the real
issues at stake. A peace journalist should not be neutral in his reportage when
the masses are ruthlessly butchered by Boko Haram bombs and bullets. The
reporters should consider it a patriotic duty to report the killings both
objectively and subjectively, provided it is the truth. So, the press should
provide the understanding for the facts surrounding the Boko Haram insurrection
to enable the citizenry and perhaps, the government to cope with this
particular menace. Apparently, President
Buhari state that: “the victory over Boko Haram cannot be achieved by basing
the command and control centre in Abuja. The command centre will be relocated
to Maiduguri and remain until Boko Haram is completely subdued”. That buoyant
announcement has all but fizzled into insignificance, considering the recent
Boko Haram activities. In July, 2015, Boko Haram fighters massacred more than
200 Nigerians in coordinated attacks on worshipers inside mosques. On 29 July,
2019, dozens of mourners were also killed by Boko Haram at a funeral in
Northeast Nigeria. As Ifeyinwa
laments, Boko Haram no doubt has launched more attacks in Maiduguri, the
capital of Bornu State, since Buhari announced the relocation of the military’s
tactical command to that city. It is as if the insurgents were saying to the
president and the armed forces, “there is nothing you can do”.  Peace
journalist should find out what has emboldened Boko haram to escalate its
attacks instead of retreating going by Buhari’s military credentials.
Furthermore they should present their findings to the public to enable them
make informed decisions as to handle the activities of Boko Haram. It is apparent also for
northern leaders to urgently call an emergency meeting to harness and
dispassionately X-ray the problem of Boko Haram which is fast turning the North
to nothing in terms of infrastructure, investment and development in general.
The destruction that is taking place now has the tendency of setting the region
almost 40 years back in all sectors. Whatever the governors are doing in terms
of development without checking the menace of Boko Haram will amount to
nothing. A gathering of political leaders, religious personages, Emirs, Clan
heads and other relevant stakeholders deliberating honestly and sincerely ought
to be able to stern this ugly trend. The pertinent questions that the peace
journalists should sincerely address and make public to Nigerians are: did Boko
Haram people descend from the skies? Don’t they have roots somewhere? They
didn’t grow up in communities? Don’t they have people who know them, who can
appease them to drop their arms against their people and nation? It is also time for
those who created the Frankenstein monster in the name of politics or whatever
reason, to face the reality that the evil wind they sowed yesterday has birthed
a whirlwind ravaging the North and the nation today. Honestly, Nigerian would
not forget when some people threatened that, should Jonathan contest and win
2011 elections; they would make the country ungovernable for him. Everything he
did was criticised. If one Boko Haram member was killed, they would accuse
Jonathan of wanting to wipe out the North. Ironically, the same people who
always criticised Jonathan but never proffered any solution on how the issue of
terrorism could be tackled are now asking Nigerians to support Buhari against
Boko Haram. These facts should be highlighted by the peace reporters to the
masses to enable them contribute meaningfully to the fight against Boko Haram. A lawyer and public
affairs analyst, Martins Agoziem, remarks that the issue of insecurity and
terrorism in Nigeria had been so politicized that it would be a difficult nut
to crack. He said that if Nigerians faced the issue of terrorism the way it
tackled the Ebola virus, terrorism would have been drastically reduced. During
the Ebola scare, everybody faced the problem with one spirit. There was no APC
or PDP because Ebola did not know who was in party A or B and with the
corporation of all Nigerians, Ebola was defeated. This implies that the war against
Boko Haram can be won if all Nigerians come together without attachment to
political or religious affiliations. A peace journalist should analyze how the
war against Ebola was won and tell the people publicly that if the same
strategies should be used to fight Boko Haram, we shall succeed. The deputy senate
president under the caption- Boko Haram: Ekweremadu urges support for Buhari
that “all hands should be on deck in the fight against Boko Haram. Whatever has
caused insurgence, we need to address Boko Haram and aggressively too before it
gets too late. The peace journalist should excavate news beyond the news, throw
more light on the president’s statement and of course get suggestions from
different quarters on how the problem could be approached. Thus, allowing the
masses to make informed decision after being exposed to useful information. To this end, our leaders and the
stakeholders particularly in the affected region are not sincere to themselves
in the fight against Boko Haram. The issue is that members of the sect have
their roots and it is only leaders in those areas that can identify their root
and realistically use different strategies to curb the menace. Please,
journalists should wake up, the use of security agents and military alone
cannot stop the activities of the sect. Aondover
Eric Msughter wrote in from the Department of Mass Communication, Bayero
University, Kano.