The bid to stop the continuous
misappropriation and embezzlement of funds in the Imo State Oil Producing Areas
Development Commission, has seen the Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodinma, saving
about of N800 million in the last two months of his assumption of office. Uzodinma disclosed this at the
palace of the traditional ruler of Mmahu community in Ohaji Egbema, while
meeting with stakeholders in oil rich Ohaji Egbema Local Government Area of Imo
State over the weekend. A Government House statement on
Monday said the Governor lamented the misappropriation of funds by the elites
and leaders of the area, which noted was actually meant for the development and
growth of the oil communities. The Governor said his administration
will not support any anti-people policy as he will ensure that monies and
allocation meant for the people of oil producing communities are judiciously
used for the development of the area. In his words: “My interest is to
protect your own interest. “Only two months I took over as
Governor, I have N800 million saved from ISOPADEC. “But before now, you don’t get the
money. “They bring the money and the
leaders share it, leaving the people to die in hunger and poverty. “But if we save that money, we come
here and call a meeting, the communities will choose the project they want, we
will award the project and make sure the projects are done.”. Uzodinma reiterated that his
administration will continue to ensure that there is lasting peace in the oil
rich Ohaji Egbema Local Government Area of the state. While promising the people of the
community of his willingness to provide adequate security for lives and
properties, the Governor appealed to the leaders of Ohaji Egbema to
differentiate right from wrong by helping the youths to desist from thuggery
and other social vices that cause instability in the area. Earlier, the Traditional Ruler of
Mmahu Community in Ohaji Egbema, His Royal Highness Austin Iwuogu, while
commending the Governor for his timely visit to the area, enumerated some of
the challenges faced by the people of the community as a result of the
activities of oil companies in the area. Iwuogu appealed for the Governor’s
intervention as quickly as possible to ameliorate the sufferings of the people.