 The Civil Society
Legislative Advocacy Centre, CISLAC, has urged the government to waive taxes
for citizens as part of socio-economic palliative measure to ameliorate the
impact of Coronavirus pandemic. The CISLAC’s Executive
Director, Auwal Musa-Rafsanjani, in a statement on Tuesday, noted with concerns
the current trend in the spread of Covid 19 virus pandemic. According to him, the
increasing global spread as well as the latest sporadic spread in Nigeria is
worrying. “We also note the continual
shut-down of government offices including the legislative arm of government
both at national and state levels, schools, some international airports and
private sector offices within the country. “CISLAC therefore urges
citizens to abide by government directives on mass gathering and to observe
personal hygiene, and imbibe healthy eating habits,” the statement noted. Mr Rafsanjani also called
on governments at local, state and federal levels be more prepared for disaster
response and management to be able to curb the spread of the virus and other
epidemics. “COVID 19 has, as of now,
infected over 350, 000 people worldwide and killed 15, 000 globally. “CISLAC observes that
inadequate preparedness for the management of epidemics, such as the Covid 19,
is a result of poor funding allocation for the health sector, widespread corruption
and lack of palliative measures. “Nigeria has only two
doctors per 1000 citizens and 0.5 beds per 1000 citizens. Health personnel is
unable to effectively deliver essential health services. “In addition, over 90% of
the Nigerian population is without health insurance coverage and cannot afford
even basic health care,” the executive-director lamented. Continuing, Mr Rafsanjani
said: “CISLAC’s long-term experience in the health sector shows the inability
to effectively address numerous public health challenges. “Political instability,
corruption, limited institutional capacity and an unstable economy are major
factors responsible for the poor development of health services in Nigeria. “Households and individuals
in Nigeria suffer from dysfunctional and inequitable health system, which
prompts them to delay or not seek health care and having to pay out of pocket
for health care services that are not affordable. “This could prove
disastrous in the context of the fast spreading COVID 19 pandemic.” Mr Rafsanjani, therefore,
called on Nigerians to comply with health experts’ advice and government
directives in order to stay safe from contracting Coronavirus.