 The Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities (SSANU) has expressed
strong displeasure over the irregularities witnessed in the payment of February
salaries for its members using the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information
System (IPPIS). The Association expressed its view in a statement signed by Mr Salaam
Olayiwola, SSANU National Public Relations Officer, and made available to
newsmen on Monday in Abuja. According to Olayiwola, IPPIS is government payment platform, which we keyed
into, with the understanding that the platform would greatly improve personnel
accountability in the system thereby reducing the spate of corruption in our
universities. “Kindly recall that we keyed into the IPPIS with an understanding that all
the peculiarities in the University system, particularly pertaining to our
members would be adequately addressed. “Also, especially the issues of allowances, appointments, increments and
third party deductions among others. “Various concerns were raised and our fears were allayed through various
correspondences, meetings and practical sessions where the application was
displayed and all issues brought forward were addressed, ” he said. He explained that it was only after exhausting all queries and getting
satisfactory answers that the union and its Joint Action Committee counterpart
Non-Academic Staff Union of Universities, decided to key into the platform in
the overall interest of the system and its members. Olayiwola added that it was shocking to them that their first real taste of
the IPPIS application was totally different from what was presented. All the
concerns raised by their unions were not implemented and disregarded. He said apart from the breach of trust, which had now manifested, the
members across the universities were groaning from various anomalies witnessed
in their salaries thereby forcing them into great hardships “which they never
bargained for when they keyed into the IPPIS. “As a leadership, this is totally unacceptable! “The recent development has once again shown, despite our attempts to test
otherwise, that Government can never be trusted. “As such, based on what we have been subjected to with the February salary,
we do not blame our lecturer counterparts, Academic Staff Union of Universities
(ASUU), for resisting the IPPIS from the beginning. “It is on the strength of the above that we demand that the office of the
Accountant General of the Federation reverts us to the GIFMIS platform, which
was working seamlessly before IPPIS was introduced. “It is getting clearer that our trust in government and its agencies on the
IPPIS issue was clearly misplaced, ” he said. He, however, added that an understanding had been reached with ASUU to
integrate the ASUU proposed University Transparency and Accountability Solution
(UTAS) into the IPPIS. “While we place on record, the right of ASUU to reach an understanding with
the government on this hybrid payment platform, we note that this can only be
implemented for ASUU members as at today and if it is to be implemented across
board. “It must be with the consent of the other university based unions;  having
keyed into the IPPIS project and gotten an unsavory first taste, we shall not
accept any other payment platform, which does not carry us along. “If UTAS is a general University payment platform, we must be guaranteed
that its features accommodate the peculiar needs and challenges of the
non-teaching staff in the system. “If this is not guaranteed, the hybrid application shall be rejected in
totality by our members. “We demand that Government immediately looks into the anomalies witnessed in
the February 2020 salary payments through the IPPIS platform and ensure
rectification of these anomalies because the situation as at today cannot
guarantee industrial peace in the system,” he said.(NAN)