 The Speaker of the House of
Representatives Rep. Femi Gbajabiamila has urged religious leaders to always
pray for Nigerian leaders for better leadership. Gbajabiamila said Nigerian leaders
need prayers all the time to succeed. Speaking when he hosted Leaders of
Faith Forum from the South South and Southeast in Abuja on Wednesday,
Gbajabiamila also urged the clerics to avail Nigerian leaders their wisdom and
knowledge, especially in the areas of politics and governance. “I want to say that please do
not forget us in your prayers. We should never cease in prayers. For those of
us who are in the eye of the storm in government, we will really love that.
Keep us in your prayers. “We can have continuous
engagements. This is the first, but hopefully not the last. I like the fact
that you’re involved in issues of politics and governance. From time to time,
you need to borrow us your wisdom and knowledge in those areas,” he said. Responding to the position of the
Leaders of Faith Forum that the Nigerian Government should completly jettison
the idea of taking a foreign loan of $22.7bn at this time, Gbajabiamila said
the issue is debatable and that government should be given the benefit of the
doubt. The Speaker said it was because of
the agitation that the Southeast would not benefit from the loan that the House
stepped down its consideration, and that he had personally spoken with Finance
Minister and the Director General of the Budget Office to find a solution. “You said there is no need for
the loan at this time, but that itself is debatable. If government believes
that there’s need for the loan, I think we should support that, because they
know as they’re the ones that see what is needed and what is not needed. “What I think for me is more
important is the equity of the law and whether or not we’re able to distribute
these things fairly considering the very nature of the structure of our
country. “I know there has been a lot of
agitation about Southeast not benefiting from the loan. It is one of the
reasons we haven’t considered the loan in the House. I’ve discussed with the
Finance Minister and the DG Budget. “It’s a matter that we’re
looking at seriously. I’m hoping that there will be some kind of amicable
resolution so that everybody will be carried along. Equity suggests that all
zones must be carried along. “With the quality of members
that you have and the generality of the House, we’ll work towards a fair
resolution of the issue so that it leads to something that will bring us
together and unite us as a country.” Gbajabiamila said the House was
already addressing the issues of open grazing, insecurity, among others as
raised by the clerics, challenging them to come up with alternatives and
possible solutions to any issue that they are not at home with. Earlier, leader of the delegation,
Bishop Sunday Onouha, said the visit was to discuss issues of concerns with the
Speaker, saying while they applaud the Federal Government’s food security
agenda, farmlands across the country are still unsafe. They therefore urged the government
to urgently address the situation and avert impending hunger for most
communities who depend on staple food like cassava and rice. The religious leaders said the issue
of open grazing must stop as it generates insecurity and people are no longer
safe in their farmlands. They also declared support for regional security
outfits, which they said must be done in collaboration with relevant
authorities.