 The American University of Nigeria has announced a switch to the online mode of instruction for the remainder of the Spring 2020 semester. AUN, whose
Governing Council had approved full compliance with the Federal Government of
Nigeria’s directive to all tertiary institutions to close down as a
precautionary measure against further spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, will
begin course delivery through online channels with effect from Monday, March
30, the Vice President for University Relations, Dr. Abubakar Abba Tahir,
announced today. The program ends on Friday, April 17, 2020. “This is
a familiar measure deploying AUN’s vast technological resources and support
infrastructure toward ensuring that the remaining weeks of the semester are
concluded within reason while meeting the remaining learning outcomes of the
courses our students are enrolled in”, Dr. Tahir said. While
announcing the closure of the campus on March 20, AUN’s President
(Vice-Chancellor), Dr. Dawn Dekle assured departing students and their parents
of continuity in their studies despite the shutdown as the University prepared
to switch to online delivery modes which students and faculty (lecturers) are
already familiar with. “I am
proud of how our AUN learning community is adjusting to the COVID-19 health
crisis. We have transitioned to alternative learning platforms quickly,
allowing us to continue our Spring 2020 semester with as little disruption to
the academic calendar as possible, said Dr. Dekle, while adding that ”Our
capacity for swift and successful deployment of AUN’s massive tools and
techniques of technology within such short notice, is unprecedented in the
region.” In
preparation for a seamless transition to online course delivery systems, the
Office of Academic Planning and Quality Assurance (APQA), in collaboration with
the Office of Technology Support (OTS), organized refresher sessions on the use
of online course delivery systems for faculty and staff. Participants
were drawn from the Schools of Information Technology & Computing, Business
& Entrepreneurship, Arts & Sciences, Law, and Engineering. Also, to
ensure that the online model of instruction comes closer to the lively,
interactive classroom experience which is a uniqueness of AUN’s American-style
liberal arts system, students have been assigned a Mentor/Learning Support
Advisors who will facilitate additional support and interfaces with instructors
and support staff elsewhere. The
University library has granted the undergraduate and post-graduate students
unimpeded access to scholarly e-books and e-journal articles they may require
for their courses and research. The American University of Nigeria, which is enjoying its 30th
uninterrupted semester since its establishment in 2004,was founded to be Africa’s first
Development University whose mission is to promote service-learning and to
educate leaders who will be prepared to tackle the development issues of
Nigeria and Africa. The University offers an American-style education modeled
after the curriculum of American universities, using the latest in Internet
technology and e-learning resources. Currently,
AUN’s five Schools offer the following undergraduate and post-graduate courses
taught by very experienced faculty drawn from over 36 countries: School of IT & Computing – Software
Engineering, Information Systems and Computer Science (with Concentrations inAI & Machine Learning, Algorithms &
Complexity, Networks & Distributed Computing and Systems); School of Engineering – Chemical Engineering, Computer
Engineering, Telecommunication Engineering, Systems Engineering, and Electrical/Electronic
Engineering; Bachelor of Laws (LLB); School of Arts & Sciences – Communication & Multimedia Design (with concentrations in Journalism, Multimedia Design, Public Relations & Advertising, Radio/Television/Film), Economics (with concentrations in Business/Big Data Analytics, Finance, FINTECH & Block Chains), English Literature and Language, Politics & International Studies, Natural and Environmental Sciences (with concentrations in Bioinformatics, Biomedical Sciences, Biostatistics, Conservation Biology, Environment and Health, and Public Health), Petroleum Chemistry (with concentrations in Oil and Gas Chemistry, and Petrochemical and Polymer Science; and School of Business & Entrepreneurship – Accounting, Agribusiness Management, Business Administration, Entrepreneurship, Finance, Digital Marketing, and Public Policy & Administration.