 Yesterday
marked the International Women’s Day. The day is celebrated globally annually
on March 8 in appreciation  of women’s remarkable contribution
to humanity and society. The day  commemorates the inspiring role of
women around the world to secure women’s rights and build more equitable
societies.  It was a pleasure to return back to Ilorin yesterday to mark
the historic date. I rounded up my campaign for Governorship of Kwara state on
the 8th of March last year during which I stepped down for the APC candidate under
the OTO GE/ODOPIN partnership political agenda to liberate the state of Harmony
from the hegemony of PDP almost two decade rule. Earlier on that Thursday, I
had unveiled a block of twin toilets to the Junior Secondary School Araromi
Ayegun, Eyenkorin, (a mixed school proportional males and females)  in Asa
local government area of the state. The project came into being following a
pledge I had made during the Inter-School Science Competition held at Apata
Ajele Secondary School, where the female students of Ayegun Secondary School
came second. The competition was organized for selected Secondary Schools in
the area by an NGO in collaboration with some British youth volunteers. Prior
to the donation of the toilet, the staff and students of Ayegun Secondary school
had been practicing open defecation, an  appalling and very repugnant act
in a public school in the present 21st century. The rationale behind the
donation of the toilet was to provide a serene and hygienic environment for
both teachers and students of the college. It was repugnant and socially
unacceptable in this present era for government to build a school without
adequate consideration for toilet facility and other basic amenities like power
and water, basic necessities for learning. It was heart warming to return to
the school yesterday to commission another block of twin toilets for use by
both the students and teachers in the school as promised last year. The gesture
is to make teaching and learning more conducive for both teachers and students of
the school.  It also compliments the Kwara State’s administration’s effort
and commitment to improved sanitation and hygiene in line with Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs) six (6) which seeks to achieve access to adequate and
equitable sanitation and hygiene for all and end open defecation, paying
special attention to the needs of women and girls and those in vulnerable
situations by 2030.  The move also complements the objectives of Executive
Order 009 signed by President Muhammadu Buhari which tends to end open
Defecation-Free Nigeria by 2025. The
theme of this year’s International Women’s Day is “I am Generation Equality:
Realizing Women’s Rights”. It aptly compliments United Nations Women’s new
multigenerational campaign – (Generation Equality) marking  25th
anniversary of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action adopted in 1995
at the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing, China. The theme is a wake
up call towards equal gender representation   focusing on the need for all
to be involved in the fight for gender equality. Today we should raise the
voice for gender equality in the politics and governance, boardrooms,
government, workplace and trade unions. I commend AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq,
Governor of Kwara State, for forming an inclusive cabinet with the number of
appointed female cabinet members and politi­cal appointees. At present, nine,
or 52.25%, of his 16-person cabinet picks are women, high­er than the 35%
affirmative action sought by the Beijing Declaration. I agree with the late
Nelson Mandela in his 1996 women Day speech that: “As long as outmoded ways
of thinking prevent women from making a meaningful contribution to society,
progress will be slow,”. As a
gender equality activist, I am excited that women are being integrated in
national development process. I am even more impressed that millions of our
women including my late mother earn and deserve their achievements and
accomplishment not necessarily through affirmative actions. Indeed it is the
society that must apologize for the historic exclusion of women in the past
rather than women rolling out praises for leaders who are doing what they
should in the first instance if Nigeria must have a sustainable development;
women inclusion.  Certainly Nigeria parades first female Defence Minister
of state, first foreign Affairs Minister, first Minister of Finance, Ministers
for Solid Minerals and Education, first Petroleum Minister, twice times
Minister of the Federal Republic and first coordinating Minister (read; Prime
Minister!), many Deputy governors and commissioners  and a significant
number of high profile female advisers on critical success programmes like the
old Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and new Sustainable Development Goals
(SDGs) of 2020. Even at that Nigeria lacks behind Ghana and South Africa in
gender equality in governance. Certainly it’s not yet a generation equality
here. However few women in governance must effectively bring a different perspective
into governance based on their experiences, rich heritage of struggles,
competence, resistance to oppression and marginalization, widening gap between
great potentials and miserable reality, mass unemployment amidst idle capacity,
vote rigging and insurgency. Paradoxically
most women in governance do not pose the question of their relevance in
governance in the  way of making a difference but in partaking in the
current serial malfeasance. Women must not just be contended with opportunity
to be appointed to serve and count gains in personal awards. The abysmal and
scandalous shortages of basics like water and energy tasks women and men alike
in governance to make a difference. With trillion of Naira on power sector,
Nigeria is still largely in darkness. Industrialization remains a tall order
without electrification. A dispensation that throws many women up for national
service has further pushed (or has not uplifted) as many women as 70 per cent
below poverty. In fact gender desegregation of deepening poverty and
destitution makes observers talk of the new phenomenon of feminization of
poverty again in a dispensation in which women political office holders have
captured imagination. There are cynics who insist that women in governance have
only legitimized bad governance and underdevelopment. The issue here is that
female participation comes to naught until Nigeria’s existing recurring failure
factors, namely education, power, industry and health are transfigured into
clear cut success factors. There cannot be celebration as such, until
commonwealth is built in place of the present personal aggrandizement of the
political elite made up of men and few privileged women. Nigeria is totally
imperiled if either by omission or commission, women join in the present
obscenely advertised madness of the ruling (read: ruining) male elite! Happy
women day!!! Issa
Aremu mni