 By
Our correspondent Barring
last-minute change, Nigeria’s former president, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, will
once again vie for a second shot at the Presidency to lead the oil rich West
African nation, a well-placed source has confirmed to Newsdiaryonline. The
sources who incidentally played  key roles
for a political support group and media campaign in 2019 told Newsdiaryonline
that, ‘‘we have reached out to him (Jonathan) and his responses are positive
concerning the 2023 presidential election. ‘‘I
can confidently tell you that Dr, Jonathan will contest to lead the country
again for good,’’ one of the sources who does not want to be named in this
report said in Abuja, the nation’s capital. According
to him the fact ‘‘that former president Jonathan will run for 2023 presidency
is a done deal.’’ He added that judging from the assurances from the country’s
erstwhile leader to stage a comeback ‘‘the next line of action is to go back to
the drawing board and plan how to return Nigeria to a Peoples Democratic Party
(PDP) controlled nation.’’ When
asked whether Jonathan’s return will  be blocked
by the PDP presidential candidate in the 2019 general election, former vice
president, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, who from every indication is poised for
another attempt at the presidency, the source said ‘‘that Jonathan is at a very
advantageous position in the party in the sense that top PDP leaders are
inclined  to zoning the party’s presidential ticket to the South.’’ Besides,
he noted, if the 2023 presidential ticket of the party is ‘‘made open’’ the
source said Dr. Goodluck Jonathan ‘‘will still not lose sleep as to his
presidential ambition.’’ Newsdiaryonline
reports that the Peoples Democratic Party has not yet come out with a clear -cut
position on where its presidential candidate for 2023 election will come from.
But many believe that zoning it to the south or throwing it up for grabs by
aspirants appears to be the party’s best bet for now. It
would be recalled that Jonathan, ‘a minority’ from Bayelsa State in the oil
rich Niger Delta region of Nigeria became president in 2010 following the death
of president Umaru Musa Yar’ Adua whom he had served as vice after their
election in 2007. Jonathan
ran for and won the 2011 presidential poll but lost his re-election bid  to  President Buhari in 2015.