The third prosecution witness, PW3,  Dabi Gideon Dachung, in the ongoing trial of
a former Joint Military Task Force Commander, Maj.- Gen. Emmanuel Atewe (retd.)
for alleged N8.5bn fraud  has given more
evidence against him before Justice Ayokunle Faji of the Federal High Court
sitting in Ikoyi, Lagos. Atewe is being prosecuted by the Economic and Financial
Crimes Commission, EFCC, alongside Patrick Akpobolokemi, a former
Director-General of Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, NIMASA,
Kime Enzogu and Josephine Otuaga on a 22-count charge of conspiracy, stealing
and money laundering to the N8.5billion. The defendants allegedly conspired amongst themselves to
defraud NIMASA of the said sum, using companies namely: Jagan Limited, Jagan Trading
Company Limited, Jagan Global Services Limited, Al-Nald Limited, Paper
Warehouse Limited, Eastpoint Integrated Services Limited and De-Newlink
Integrated Service Limited. At the last adjourned sitting, counsel for the EFCC, Rotimi
Oyedepo, and the defence team had argued on a document, a payment
acknowledgment signed by the fourth defendant, which the prosecution sought to
tender in evidence. Justice Faji had adjourned till today, Wednesday, March 11,
2020 for ruling on the admissibility of the document and for continuation of
trial. At the resumed hearing today, Justice Faji, in a short
ruling, rejected the document sought to be tendered in evidence by the
prosecution on the grounds that the said document had been rejected initially
by the court. Following the ruling, the PW3, Dachung, a Forensic Analyst
and Document Examiner with the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC,
in his further testimony, revealed to the court that his opinion as a result of
the analysis he carried on the two sets of documents contained a disputed
document and a known-disputed document (requested statement document). Dachung told the court that “the author of the
known-disputed document wrote the disputed handwriting and the signatures in
question and also the dates as well as names in the two sets of documents.” Dachung further explained that “for him to arrive at this
opinion as a result of his findings, he relied on the three principles of
handwriting identification first by determining the presence or absence of
handwriting identity characteristics in both the documents to reflect the
presence of similarities and differences. “The three principles satisfied that the handwriting on the
two sets of documents has the same line qualities, same slant of writing, same
alignment and same height ratio of letters; and that there were connections
between the characters of words for the handwriting and the signatures. “Also, the pen lifts in the two sets of documents determined
that the handwriting and signatures seemed to be natural and unnatural due to
the fact that the disputed handwriting was fluently written to skill up the
signatures. “Both turned out to be similar and the two sets of documents
fall within the same level of skill writing.” The witness also told the court unequivocally that the same
person who had the handwriting on the two sets of documents had the signatures
“because the signatures have pictorial resemblance as the handwriting does.” Dachung, however, told the court that his findings and
opinion were not in any way influenced by the management of the EFCC or by his
status as an employee of the Commission. Dachung, under cross-examination by the defence team, told
the court that, as an expert in document analysis and a forensic expert, he
acquired the knowledge by through academic studies and apprenticeship. He told the court that all equipment used during the
analysis of the two sets of documents were working perfectly as at the time he
conducted the analysis and that his opinion and analysis were based on what he
saw with his  eyes coupled with the aid
of equipment he used. When all documents tendered and admitted in evidence in the
case were requested by the defence team to be given to the witness to show the
court if the report of his findings were tendered and admitted, he replied that
he had given oral evidence, which he believed had been admitted in evidence. The matter was adjourned till March 12, 2020 for
continuation of trial.