The All Progressives Congress, APC
has described  Peoples Democratic Party, PDP’s
contemplation of a rally   in the face of  raging coronavirus.as  “senseless”. Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, APC’s  National Publicity Secretary  said in a statement Wednesday that the move
shows that  “Obviously, the PDP is
incapable of applying itself to rules and commonsense.” According to Issa-Onilu,  “At a time when countries all over the world
are taking deliberate, coordinated and concerted measures to contain the global
outbreak of the Coronavirus (COVlD-19), the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) sees
the need to hold a senseless rally. “Nigeria just cancelled the
scheduled National Sports Festival, NYSC camps have closed down nationwide, a
travel ban on government officials is in place, restricted entry into the
country for travellers from 13 countries is in effect, improved emergency
medical response across the country is in place among other social distancing
steps being taken to protect our country. “On Wednesday, five new cases were announced
in the country and efforts are already underway to track persons who have had
contact with these confirmed cases. The APC spokesman added that “The
PDP’s thoughtless action is shockingly at variance with the current world
effort to contain this pandemic. “Events in most countries of the
world and instructions being given by the Nigerian government do not support
this criminal activity. Obviously, the PDP is incapable of applying itself to
rules and commonsense. “Even as the APC-led government is
making efforts to put in place a new national order for good governance and
patriotic citizenship, PDP, living up to its legendary infamy, has continued in
its malicious ways. “How could any group choose this
period to pull a crowd together? What is at stake at this moment that requires
this level of risk taking? Why do the leaders of PDP not realise this action is
capable of putting the entire country in jeopardy? “For how long would this country put
up with a badly behaved and clueless opposition party with irredeemable
tendency for taking actions that violate all known moral principles? This is a
new low, even for the PDP’s abysmal standards. “We call on well-meaning Nigerians
to plead with the PDP leaders to be responsible for once. This is a time for
them to apply some intelligence to their actions.”