 Governor Nasir El Rufai  has
promised that all shop owners will be given the right of first refusal when the
new Kaduna markets are completed and no trader will be short changed in the
re-distribution of shops. The Governor who was responding to a
question from a caller during the media chat at the weekend, reiterated that
the data of all shop owners are being captured. El Rufai also promised that no
Government official or civil servant will be allocated a shop in any of the
markets that are being rebuilt. The Governor however  said that
the traders were just tenants in the market which belonged to the
Government,  dispelling  the misconception that the  shops
belonged to the traders. El Rufai pointed out that the fact
that the original allotees have sub-eased or even sold the shops to third
parties does not make the beneficiaries the owners of those shops. The Governor further argued
that  the markets should be rebuilt, ‘’ because the population that they
were initially meant to cater for, has grown over the years. Also, the
facilities are old and there is need to modernise them.’’ According to him, Kasuwar Barci in
Tudun Wada area of Kaduna South Local Government, Kasuwan Magani in Kajuru
Local Government, Kawo market in Kaduna North,  as well as Sabon Gari
market in Zaria, will all be rebuilt and fitted with  modern facilities. The Governor also said that
temporary markets have  been provided for the traders who will be affected
by the markets re-development projects, adding that they will do business 
there until the new markets are  ready for use. El Rufai who said that the projects
will  be handled  Kaduna Markets Development and Management Company(KMDMC)
through Public Private Partnership, also said  that they have
addressed  the concerns of small traders who may not have money to
re-purchase their shops upon completion. Government has already entered a
mortgage arrangement with some banks, whereby they will give the traders money
to purchase the shops, while the banks will hold onto the Certificates of
Occupancies until their  mortgages are  liquidated, he added. According to him, the re-payment
plan is flexible as it will take five years to liquidate the mortgage. ‘’The principle is that instead of
paying monthly rents, the shop owners will now pay these monies to the bank in
order to offset the mortgage,’’ he explained. The Governor who decried the
situation whereby people are calling Government officials all sort of names
because of the market re-development project, said that posterity will judge
his administration positively for embarking on the project.