 Sequel to
the directive of the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Tuesday on
more restrictive measures to break the cycle of transmission of Corona virus
(COVID-19) in the State, the State Government today set up makeshift markets
for food and agricultural produce in selected schools across Local Governments
in the State. The State
Commissioner for Agriculture, Prince Gbolahan Lawal who disclosed this noted
that that the aim of setting up the makeshift markets
was to provide Lagosians access to food supplies during this restrictive
period in order to prevent panic buying following the directive of the State
Governor that all markets and stores trading in non-essential commodities be
closed. The
Commissioner gave the list of Local Governments where the makeshift food and
agricultural markets would be set up as including Mushin, Alimosho, Surulere,
Ikeja, Apapa, Lagos Mainland; Eti-Osa; Surulere and Ifako Ijaiye Local
Governments. According to
him, the makeshift food and agricultural markets would be located in Schools
such as Bishop Aggey Primary School, Ilasamaja; Ajenifuja Primary School,
Ilupeju, Mushin; Papa Ajao Primary School, Ladipo Street, Mushin; Akin Ogun
Primary School, Mosan; Meiran Community Primary School, Meiran; and Animashaun
Primary School, Ijeshatedo off Omilani Street, Surulere, Others are
Ikeja Primary School, Ikeja; Opebi Primary School, Opebi, Ikeja; Anglican
Primary School, Marine Beach, Apapa; St. Jude Primary School, Ebute- Metta; St.
George’s Boys Primary School, Falomo; Community Grammar School, Adelabu,
Surulere; Obele Secondary School, Adelabu, Surulere; Fagba Junior Grammar
School, Ifako Ijaiye; and Stadium High School, Ifako. Lawal
stressed that his Ministry along with the Ministry of Health have put in place
safety guidelines at each of the makeshift food and agricultural markets but
urged for strict adherence to safety measures by shoppers and necessary
precautionary measures of social distancing. The
Commissioner pointed out that there was no need for any panic buying by members
of the public particularly since the makeshift food and agricultural markets
have been put in place by the State Government to ameliorate peoples’ suffering
adding that officials of the Nigeria Police and Neighbourhood Watch would be on
ground to ensure the maintenance of law and order. Lawal
explained that the chiefs of the fast moving consumer goods have since assured
the State Government of their readiness to keep supplies flowing unhindered
hence there is no need for any panic buying from shoppers. He therefore
advised all residents of the State to take individual responsibility during
this restrictive period by acting positively so that the chain of COVID-19
transmission could be broken in the State.