 As the COVID-19, better known as coronavirus, continues to
ravage the global community, the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), as
the telecommunications industry regulator, has put in place measures to support
initiatives by other stakeholders to curtail this scourge. The Commission, in conjunction with industry players and all
other government agencies, has agreed to reduce the frequency of physical
meetings all through the period of the coronavirus outbreak and considered
alternative electronic meeting platforms, in order to reduce person-to-person
contact that may arise from travels or meetings. According to a presss release signed by Henry Nkemadu, Director, Public Affairs Nigerian
Communications Commission,  NCC, departments within the Commission that interface with
customers have developed e-platforms where all licensing requests, consumer
complaints and base transceiver station (BTS) investigation requests could be
channeled or provide designated e-mail addresses to be used for such requests
throughout the pandemic period. The Commission has also approved resource sharing by operators
throughout the period of coronavirus. These include fibre optics cables and
other resources in the event of cable cuts and other unforeseen developments
during the period of coronavirus outbreak. Furthermore, the Commission has  directed Mobile Network Operators (MNOs) to
ensure that their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programmes are in
tandem with government initiatives to curtail the COVID-19 pandemic in order to
provide safety and support aid materials that will protect the public against
coronavirus. All social and official visits to the Commission have been
cancelled immediately and visitors advised to use relevant online platforms and
or telephone services in accessing the Commission’s services. For those who may be affected, the Commission implores them to
take advantage of the Emergency Communications Centres (ECCs) by dialing the
toll-free number 112. The NCC supports Right of Passage (RoP) for all
telecommunications members for easy movement in the event of a total lockdown
and or restriction of movement. The regulator is also in support of RoP for suppliers that are
involved in supplies of fuels, foods and other support services to telecom
operators, to allow for free movement in the event of partial or total lockdown
as a result of the coronavirus. The Commission is in touch with Law Enforcement Agencies to
constantly protect telecom infrastructure nationwide. The NCC will come
out from time to time with enlightenment information on the dangers of the
virus so that consumers can be guided accordingly. Since we are in this together, no effort would be spared to
bring this deadly disease to an end, he said.