 The Minister, Federal Capital Territory
(FCT) Malam Muhammad Musa Bello has commended the efforts of the Ecological
Fund Office of the Office of the Secretary of the Federation for its
intervention efforts in curtailing the flood and erosion challenges at
Ashara/Wako, in Kwali Area Council. Malam Bello said this at the
commissioning ceremony of erosion control bridge and road improvement works at
Ashara-Wako. The Minister also commended the efforts
of the traditional ruler of the area, Etsu Yaba, His royal Highness Alhaji
Abdullahi Adamu whom he described as a great leader. The traditional ruler, the
Minister said was unrelenting in his pursuit of the project, saying that the
Etsu followed up the matter with personal visits, phone calls and text messages
till the project was executed. He also commended the traditional ruler
for being a believer in the policies of President Muhammadu Buhari and berated
those who he said pretended to be with the President but really did not support
him. The Minister also extended appreciation
to the Permanent Secretary, Ecological
Fund Office, Dr. Habiba Lawal, for her commitment to the project’s successful
completion. He said: “I really want to say that this
successful project has many fathers and mothers. The number one mother of this
project is Dr Habiba Lawal. We thank you very much.” While commending the contractors of the
project, Messr Masarki Nigeria Limited, Malam Bello, painted
a vivid picture of what the place used to be like before the intervention. He said, “ When I came here, we couldn’t
have stood where we are standing  today because it was all marshland full of water.
Water was gushing from everywhere and you see vehicles parked on the other side
because there was no way they could cross. But to God almighty, we are happy
that under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari, this has come to stay.
This embankment and the bridge by the grace of God, is going to outlast all of
us here”. The Minister however stressed that it
was very important that the community take ownership of the projects and ensure
proper maintenance construction. He therefore appealed to the Area Council
chairmen of Abaji and Kwali to ensure that sand does not collect in the
drainage and block it  thereby leading once more to erosion. “You also
have to make sure that under the culverts is always clear so that there is free
flow of water, or else, debris will continue to sediment there and stay there”. Earlier in her address, the Permanent
Secretary, Ecological Funds Office, Dr. Habiba Lawal had said that the project
was initiated by the request of FCT Minister to President Muhammadu Buhari in
order to arrest the continuous flooding of the river bank and the erosion of
the bridge embankment at the Ashara/Warko river and also to restore the
vehicular movement that was affected sometime in October 2018. The Minister then proceeded to pay a
visit to the Etsu Yaba in his residence.  