 Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Malam Muhammad
Musa Bello has given assurances that the FCT Administration will provide complementary
infrastructure services to ensure that the Nigerian Aviation Sector Roadmap is
successfully implemented in the FCT. Malam Bello gave this assurance when a delegation from the
Aviation Ministry, led by the Minister, Senator Hadi Sirika, paid him a
courtesy visit in his office. The FCT Minister described the Aviation Roadmap as a legacy
project that would have immense impact on the economy of the FCT and country as
a whole, especially in the areas of infrastructure development, job creation and
contribution to the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Malam Bello, while noting that the geometric rise in Abuja’s
population has led to increased demand for aviation services, said the Aviation
Roadmap was coming at a very good time. He said reliable information from the UN Habitat projects that
about 70 percent of the world’s population would migrate to the urban centres
by 2050, hence the need to plan for this massive influx in the FCT. Therefore, Malam Bello said, as part of efforts towards improving
the city’s aviation landscape, the FCT Administration recently rehabilitated
the nearly two kilometers stretch of road leading to the Nnamdi Azikiwe
International Airport, in order to cater for the ever growing need of the
airport. He also revealed that the Administration is working towards the
eventual relocation of aboriginal settlements around the airport to widen its
base, adding that provisions have been for the payment of compensation and
resettlement of the inhabitants of these villages. The Minister further disclosed that efforts were being made to
link the Abuja Airport rail station to the main terminal. To this end, he said
the first set of coaches meant to be used for this purpose have been shipped
already. According to the Minister, “What we have presently are coaches
that were meant for the trial phase. But the real coaches in the beautiful
Nigerian colour of green, white, green will be here shortly and ultimately,
before the end of
the year, we will have like 12 sets meant to run the entire route
from the city up to the airport and with the spur to Bwari and Idu. “Ultimately, by the time about two sets of coaches arrive, we
intend to run an Airport Express which will just take you from the Abuja Metro
Station at the  Central Business District to the airport in 18
minutes”. He continued: “Basically, what I’m just trying to say is that
the FCT Administration is very conscious of your aviation roadmap and we are
doing complementary infrastructure to be able to key into that. The FCT Minister, while commending the Aviation Ministry for
the  good work it is doing to reposition the aviation sector, said the FCT
Administration will give all the needed support to the aviation roadmap, adding
that FCT stands to benefit from the project, more than any other community in
the country. “It is very good news because of the multiplier effects in terms
of employment generation, economic activities and of course also, providing
needed IGR for us, either directly or indirectly,” Bello said. Earlier in his address, the Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi
Sirika, said the aviation industry need of the country is on the increase with
overall air passengers rising from 12 million in 2015 to 18 million. He said
the number of air passengers in the FCT has also increased from two million to
five million within the same time period and could further rise to eight
million by the time a national carrier becomes operational. He appealed for the support and cooperation of the FCT
Administration, especially in the provision of suitable land for this project. On what is contained in the roadmap, Senator Sirika said “In
driving the roadmap of aviation which has been approved by Mr. President and by
the FEC, we have the national carrier, we have the maintenance, repair and
overhaul for airplanes to serve the national carrier, we have the cargo
businesses that will take advantage of the economic activity in the country, we
have the Aerotropolis around the city of Abuja, we have the free zone status
that we applied for and we are sure will be granted to make Abuja airport a
free zone, he said On the entourage of the aviation Minister were heads of the
various agencies of the Ministry and relevant Directors.