The Emir of Argungu in
Kebbi State, Alhaji Samaila Mohammed Mera, has bestowed the traditional title
of ‘Kakakin Kebbi’ (Ambassador of the Kebbi Culture) on the Minister of
Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed. The Emir announced the
conferment of the title on the Minister in Abuja on Tuesday at a press
conference to unveil the programmes lined up for the 2020 Argungu International
Fishing and Cultural Festival, which comes up 11-14 March. While reading out the
letter of conferment, the Emir said: “Our decision (Argungu Emirate Council) is
based on the recognition of your efforts to project the cultural heritage of
the diverse peoples of Nigeria to the world and create jobs, income and
positive awareness for our youths though Festivals, Arts and Cultural
Exhibitions. “We admire your loyalty
to our country and your fearless defence of our national identity and integrity
through the discharge of the responsibilities of your office.” The Emir said it was
under the watch of Alhaji Mohammed that the Argungu International Fishing and
Cultural Festival was inscribed on the Representative List of the Intangible
Cultural Heritage of Humanity by UNESCO. “I don’t know of any
individual outside the Emirate who has shown so much enthusiasm towards working
with us to achieve success,” he said. While thanking the Emir
for the honour bestowed on him, the Minister expressed delight at the revival
of the Argungu International Fishing and Cultural Festival, considering the
fact that it is one of the most widely attended festivals in Nigeria and the
oldest festival of its kind, dating back many generations. Alhaji Mohammed said his
Ministry will ensure that the festival receives global visibility and
publicity. “For us at the Federal
Ministry of Information and Culture, we attach a great importance to this
festival, just like many of our great festivals nationwide. This explains why
we are leaving no stone unturned in ensuring the maximum publicity for the
forthcoming festival. ”We are going to Argungu
next week with a battery of journalists from here in order to help raise the
profile of the festival. We will be using the new and traditional media to put
the 2020 Argungu International Fishing and Cultural Festival on the national
and international map. The festival deserves no less,” he said. The Minister disclosed
that the Argungu International Fishing and Cultural Festival has been included
in the Calendar of Nigerian Festivals, which will enable tourists to plan their
attendance of the various festivals in the country with ease. For his part, Alhaji
Samaila Yombe, the Deputy Governor of Kebbi State, who is also the Chairman of
the Organising Committee, listed some of the events slated for the festival as
Grand Fishing, Kabanci Display, Agric Show, Cultural Display, Catapulting,
Archery, Traditional Boxing and Traditional Wrestling. Others are Sharo, Motor
Rally, Bicycle Race, Donkey Race, Camel Race, Durbar and Polo. Cultural troupes from
Kebbi and Niger States entertained guests at the press conference