 The decision of the House of Representatives to probe critical financial institutions on forextransactions has received a boost from the human rights community whodescribe the move as a milestone that will open a can of worms. There were reports last week that the House of Representative willinvestigate the Central Bank of Nigeria, (CBN) and the Federal InlandRevenue Services, (FIRS) over forex transactions and allocations.Economic experts say the loss in illicit forex transactions is in therange of $30b which they insist also weakens the naira in theinternational market. Human and Environmental Development Agenda (HEDA Resource Centre) in aletter addressed to the House of Representatives signed by its Chairman,Mr Olanrewaju Suraju commended the lawmakers’ decision to beam thesearchlight on the apex bank describing it as an important turning pointin ensuring the CBN and FIRS act in accordance with global bestpractices. The letter with the caption Solidarity and Support for theProbe of Central Bank of Nigeria Over forex Racketeering was addressedto the House Committee Chairman, Hon James Faleke. HEDA said the investigation and scrutiny by the House of Representativeis a step in the right direction adding that the group is willing tosupport in providing any further clarifications and answer to anyquestioning that would further the cause of investigation “The local and international communities are watching with keen interestthe plan to probe the CBN and the FIRS on forex. There has been seriesof allegations of sharp practices in forex dealings against CBN and FIRSofficials. The time to establish the truth has come”, HEDA said in aletter sent to the Chairman House of Representatives Committee onFinance, Banking and Currency. There have been lingering allegations ofracketeering in the allocation of foreign exchange by the two leadingforeign exchange hub. The House of Representatives took the decision after adopting the motionbrought under matters of urgent national importance by the Chairman,committee on finance, James Faleke. He had argued for the urgent need torescue Nigeria from over $30bn annual leakages arising from skewedallocation of foreign exchange. The prime beneficiaries suspects are the CBN, Autonomous, Interbank,Domiciliary and Over-the-Counter Purchases for the Importation ofPhysical Goods, Payment of Foreign Service Vendors, DividendRepatriation, Foreign Loan and Interest Payments, Including ForeignCurrency Denominated Contracts’ Payments by Companies in Engineering,Procurement, Construction, Installation and Marine Transportation.” HEDA said it was delighted with the conclusion in the motion,that theleakages by CBN and other agencies has resulted in the loss of revenueworth over $30billion. The House of Representatives Committee of Finance, Banking and Currencywill conduct public hearing for a critical look at various originatingdocuments maintained by the CBN, banks, forex dealers, FIRS, importersand other beneficiary companies. The committee is expected to make aformal report of findings and provide necessary recommendations towardthe regularization of the problems aimed at putting a stop to the menacein the future. HEDA said the step by the Committee aligns with the engagement ourorganization had with the CBN in the recent past when it wrote a freedomof information request to the CBN during which the bank refused todisclose the beneficiaries of the exchange rate differential. HEDA said there are strong suspicions that the report relayed that thebank gave subsidies on the foreign exchange through channels such as theforex intervention scheme which is less than being transparent. “It was reported that the alleged schemes were not beneficial to all anddeserving industries. According to reports, during the Former PresidentGoodluck Jonathan’s regime, from 2015 to 2017, pilgrims benefited fromsubsidies in the exchange rate ranging from being given the dollar at160 instead of 190, 197 instead of 297 respectively.” HEDA recalled that in the Freedom of Information Request submitted, itdetailed breakdown of the schemes created by the Central Bank of Nigeriato sell the dollar at a subsidized rate, the value of the amount thathas been given out so far for each scheme, the breakdown of the valueper sector and the detailed information on the beneficiaries of thevarious schemes inclusive of the forex intervention scheme HEDA said “Our request for information on the above listing was met withridiculous response from the Central Bank of Nigerian vide a letterdated the 23rd December 2019 stating that the Apex bank was not involvedin pilgrim’s subsidized exchange rate nor any subsidized exchange ratescheme. The refusal by the Central Bank of Nigeria prompted ourorganization to invoke the provisions of Section 20 of the Freedom ofInformation Act, 2011 by instituting an action before the Federal HighCourt, Abuja. The Letters and the court processes referred are herebyenclosed.” The rights group said the investigation to be embarked upon by thecommittee adequately and accurately meets HEDA’s organization’s delight,considering the steps our organization had taken to demand answers fromthe Apex bank in line with the allegations of racketeering in foreignexchange utilization and allocation by the apex bank.” HEDA said it hopes that the investigation by the Committee will shedlight on the matter and appropriately set the tone on the issues andputting the agencies on the path of accountability and transparency. 