 The Leadership of the National
Assembly on Wednesday held a meeting with some Ministers and Heads of agencies
from the Executive arm of Government to brainstorm on the impact of Coronavirus
pandemic on the Nigerian economy. The meeting specifically touched on
the planned review of the 2020 budget and Medium Term Expenditure Framework and
Fiscal Strategy Paper passed late last year by the National Assembly. The President of the Senate, Ahmad
Lawan, who presided over the meeting, in his opening remarks said that an immediate
review of the 2020 budget and Medium Term Expenditure Framework is imperative,
particularly against the backdrop of the impact of the Coronavirus pandemic on
global economy. The meeting, which lasted almost
four hours, according to Lawan, was summoned to “discuss the proposed review of
the 2020 budget and the Medium Term Expenditure Framework.” “If we have to review the budget
itself, we have to consider the MTEF/FSP. “Even in sickness, we need
government to provide services. “The impact of COVID-19 is well
known to all of us in terms of health and the economy. “Here, we will be talking of
revenues that we estimated to fund the budget 2020. “Because the oil price has gone so
low due to the impact of COVID-19, the Minister of State should be able to tell
us where we will be in the next six months or so. “We should have concepts that can
deliver fast and are sustainable. “Anything that we do that can not
provide succor and relief to our people will lead to catastrophe,” the Senate
President warned. Also speaking, the Speaker of the
House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila said the meeting was very
timely. “Taking a cursory look at some
of the papers(presentations), I think this meeting is actually very timely and
very important because we live in very unusual time and it’s time we start
thinking outside the box to see how we can stabilise our economy and the direction
it’s going to take,” the Speaker said. In her presentation, the Minister of
Finance, Zainab Ahmed, explained that “prior to COVID-19 and Oil price decline,
the Nigerian economy was already fragile and vulnerable.” According to her, due to the a global
economic downturn precipitated by the impact of the Coronavirus pandemic,
international Oil prices plunged as low as $22 (USD) per barrel on the
international market. She added that the impact of the
pandemic which resulted in international crisis created a disruption in travel
and trade, and put “increasing pressure on the naira and foreign reserves as
the crude oil sales receipts decline and the country’s micro-economic outlook
worsens.” Ahmed said that in view of Nigeria’s
economic realities, the Crisis Management Committee constituted by President
Muhammadu Buhari in response to the COVID-19 and Oil Price Decline Crisis
expressed concern that “the decline in international oil prices or domestic
production may be magnified if a severe outbreak of the pandemic occurs in
Nigeria.” Accordingly, the Finance Minister
proposed a review of the 2020 budget using a US$30 per barrel price benchmark
as against USD$57 initially passed in December by the National Assembly, to
prepare for the worst case scenario, as well as insulate the Nigeria economy
against any form of unexpected crisis. She also told the leadership of the
National Assembly that budgeted revenues for the Nigeria Customs Service have
been reduced from N1.5 trillion to N943 billion “due to anticipated reduction
in trade volumes; and privatization proceeds to be cut by 50 percent, based on
the adverse economic outlook on sales of the Independent Power Projects (IPPs)
and other assets.” Similarly, Ahmed disclosed that the
Federal Government has undertaken cuts to Revenue-related expenditures for the
Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) for several projects included in
the 2020 Appropriation Act passed by the National Assembly in December, 2019. “The Federal Government is working
on Fiscal Stimulus Measures to provide fiscal relief for Taxpayers and key
economic sectors; incentivize employers to retain and recruit staff during the
economic downturn; stimulate investment in critical infrastructure; review
non-essential tax waivers to optimize revenues; and compliment monetary and
trade interventions to respond to the crisis,” the Finance Minister
disclosed. She added that the Federal
Government had made provision for health sector interventions by introducing
import duty waivers for essential input for pharmaceutical firms; tax waivers
on new equipment; and deferment of tax to increase production. Ahmed further disclosed that the
Federal Government would be releasing the total sum of N6.5 billion in two
tranches (N1.5 billion and N5 billion) to the National Centre for Disease
Control (NCDC) as intervention to assist in the fight against the spread of the
COVID-19 disease in Nigeria. Also, she stated that the Lagos
State Government would receive financial support from the Federal Government to
the tune of N10 billion to combat Coronavirus spread in the state. In addition, she informed the
lawmakers that Nigeria had received a grant of US$18.2 million from Japan for
strengthening seven National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) centres across
the country. The Finance Minster, said that the
sum of one billion naira would be released by government to Pharmaceutical
firms in the country. In his presentation, the Governor of
the Central Bank, Godwin Emefiele said, “while we would expect to see a decline
in our expected growth projection for 2020 relative to 2019, the exact impact
will be dependent on how well the corona virus is contained over the next few
month, and how long low oil prices persist.” Members of the National Assembly
Leadership present at the meeting include: Deputy Senate President, Ovie
Omo-Agege; Deputy Speaker, Idris Wase; Senate Leader, Yahaya Abdullahi; Leader
of the House, Ado Doguwa; Deputy Senate Leader, Ajayi Boroffice; Senate
Minority Leader; Enyinnaya Abaribe; Minority Leader of the House, Tony Elumelu;
Senate Deputy Whip, Aliyu Sabi Abdullahi; Deputy Minority Whip, Philip
Aduda. Other are Senator Barau Jibrin, Chairman,
Senate Committee on Appropriations; and Senator Uba Sani, Chairman, Senate
Committee on Banking, Insurance and other Financial Institutions. Members from the Executive present
at the meeting which held at the National Assembly include: Minister of State
for Budget and National Planning, Prince Clem Agba; Minister of Petroleum
Resources (State), Timipre Sylva. Others are the Governor of the
Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele; Group Managing Director of the
Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mele Kyari, and Senior Special
Assistant to the President on National Assembly Matters, Senator Babajide
Omoworare.