 The Senate on Thursday began
amendment to the Electoral Act to introduce electoral debate as a requirement
to be fulfilled by candidates of political parties seeking to contest
Presidential and Governorship elections in Nigeria. Sponsor of the Electoral Act
Amendment bill 2020 (SB.176), Senator Abdulfatai Buhari (APC – Oyo North), in
his lead debate said if passed by the National Assembly, the piece of
legislation will put an end to voting based on ethnic and religious allegiances
in the country. He added that when signed into law
by President Muhammadu Buhari, the amended Act will also empower the
Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to organize and conduct debate
for all candidates into the offices of the President and Vice President of the
Federal Republic of Nigeria; and of Governor and Deputy of a State. The lawmaker explained that the
introduction of debate to Nigeria’s election process would enable electorates
to not only know about the personality of the candidates, but also their
lifestyle, belief, and reaction to national issues and foreign policy. “The Election Debates bill, if
passed into law, shall be used to sample the candidates’ knowledge on a wide
range of issues, like a detailed analysis on how they intend to drive the
economy, foreign, health and education policies among others,” Senator Buhari
said. Likening the process to the function
of the National Assembly under Section 147(1) of the Constitution (as amended)
on the confirmation of Ministerial appointments, the lawmaker said the
introduction of election debate would give electorates the platform to ask
questions and test the knowledge of candidates on a wide range of issues. “Anyone who desires to be Governor
or President should be confident enough to lay derailed analysis of his or her
plan before the electorates. “This will offer the electorates the
avenue to evaluate candidates and they will vote along ideological lines,
rather than on ethnic or religious allegiance as it is prevailing in our
country today,” Buhari said. He added that, “other African
countries that have imbibed the culture of elections debates include Ghana,
Sierra-Leone among others. “If these countries can successfully
organize election debates for potential nominees thereby strengthening their
democracy, it can only be an oversight on the part of Nigeria who prides itself
as the Giant of Africa not to provide an all-inclusive avenue for her
electorates to assess their to-be Representatives through informed process.” Senators who contributed to the
debate threw their weights behind the passage of the bill. Some, however, called for the establishment
of a separate Commission to be responsible for the conduct of election debate
in the country. Two Senators, Barau Jibrin (APC –
Kano North); and Aishatu Dahiru Ahmed (APC – Adamawa Central), in their
separate contributions suggested that participation in election debate be made
optional as against mandatory. Senator Yahaya Ibrahim Oloriegbe
(APC – Kwara Central) said the current functions performed by the Independent
National Electoral Commission (INEC) were too cumbersome to accommodate more. He, therefore, posited that, “this
role (election debate) should be given to another body.” According to him, the introduction
of election debate for candidates “will help to deepen democracy and improve on
the quality of persons standing for election” in Nigeria. Senator Olamilekan Adeola (APC –
Lagos West) said, “what this bill seeks to achieve is telling Nigerians, “know
your candidates.” Senator Barau Jibrin (APC – Kano
North) observed that, “this is an idea that is tested and working elsewhere,
infact, all over the world.” “Ours cannot be different, we need
to do the same, so that we don’t allow those who don’t have the ideas, knowledge
and wherewithal to lead.” Opining on the requirement for
partaking in such debate, the lawmaker added, “for me, I think it should be
optional. Let’s not make it mandatory, it should be optional.” Senator Jibrin Isah (APC – Kogi
East) said that making debate mandatory for candidates standing in for high
political offices “will be an opportunity for electorates to know their
candidates and make informed decisions.” The lawmaker, however, said the
National Orientation Agency (NOA) is in a better position to work with INEC in
carrying out such responsibility. Senator Smart Adeyemi (APC – Kogi
West), while supporting the bill said its introduction “is a sure way of
institutionalizing democracy in Nigeria.” The lawmaker opined that for success
to be recorded during the conduct of electoral debates, such a role should be
reserved for the media, as it remains an “unbiased umpire” that would guarantee
fairness and transparency. President of the Senate, Ahmad
Lawan, in his concluding remarks, called for the creation of a separate
Commission that would be saddled with the responsibility of organizing election
debates in the country. According to him, doing so would not
only reduce the burden on the Electoral Commission, but will secure the interest
of opposition candidates who are expected to participate in such debates. “I believe that INEC has enough
responsibilities and to give them the responsibility again to organize this
kind of debate, INEC being a government body, will cause some difficulty for
people, especially in the opposition, in participating in such debates. “So, I think we probably go the way
of other countries, to have non-State actors, and independent people,” Lawan
advised. The Senate President, referred the
bill which passed second reading to the Senator Kabiru Gaya-led Committee on
INEC for further legislative work.