 By  Zainab
Suleiman-Okino Nothing can be as demoralizing and energy-sapping
like an endless war. When a conflict rages for too long, soldiers on
the front line become war-weary. The latest casualty figure in the over 10-year
insurgency war was the killing of about 50 Nigerian soldiers in an ambush near
Goneri village in Yobe state. The attack said to be the
deadliest in recent time occurred “as the military tried to launch an
offensive against the armed group”, which laid an ambush for them from the
rear, despite their best effort and gallantry. For the Nigerian troops to have
been ambushed at a time they were planning a major offensive against BH, says a
lot about strategy, technical default and even communication leakage. Yet, Boko
Haram was said to have been technically defeated. There is no accurate data on the number of our
military men lost in this battle, but it is in tens of thousands put at a rough
estimate of over 36,000 deaths and over two million displaced.
Meanwhile, for the first time, Chadian forces lost 92 of their soldiers,
non-commissioned officers and officers about the same time with Nigeria. These losses are becoming too many and frequent in
between. For a conflict that began in 2009 as a mere local insurrection, to have
taken such an international dimension including affiliation with Al-qaeda and
Islamic State of West Africa, an offshoot of ISIS, says a lot about the
possibility of a clear victory for Nigerian army in a few years to
come. This therefore requires that we employ a new narrative and ideas to
be able to defeat BH. Luckily, the Nigerian government has already initiated
Operation Safe Corridor with a major objective of
De-radicalization, Rehabilitation and Reintegration. The programme
being coordinated by Major General Bamidele Ashafa seeks to
”encourage, train and reintegrate willing and repentant BH insurgents to
surrender and embrace peace”. In the history of mankind’s several wars in
his quest to conquer and dominate others, there has always been one form
of truce,negotiation, discussion, dialogue to end such
wars. The bloodiest wars in history all still ended in one form of
negotiation or the other. The World War II fought between 1939 to 1945 claimed
70 million lives. It ended at a negotiating table and formation of global
binding and enduring United Nations. The Mongol conquests of the 13th century,
World War I, the Manchu conquest of China and Napoleonic wars in the 18thcentury are
today reference materials in the act of ending aconflict at
a “round table”. The latest of such dialogues in search of
peace was US President Donald Trump’s peace deal  with the Taliban to
possibly put an end to the 18-year Afghan war. Trump said he had faith in the
agreement because “everyone is tired of war”. If a hot-headed world leader like
Trump could agree to a deal with their “enemies”, the Talibans,
Nigeria should seek the path of peace with Boko Haram as one of the
alternative options open to the government. Going by the examples above, the
argument that the insurgents took up arms against their country, and had killed
and maimed and therefore do not deserve amnesty or peace deal is faulty.
Even the history of conflicts in Nigeria is replete with such peace
deals. A good example is the Nigerian civil war that ended with the
“no victor, no vanquished” slogan of the General Yakubu Gowon era. In
actual fact, there was a clear winner, but in order to give peace a
chance, everyone sheathed their sword for a warm embrace as one Nigeria
under God. As recently as 2009, the late President Umaru Yar’adua
granted amnesty to the Niger Delta militants to douse tension, empower them and
allow peace to reign in the region and the country. More than 10 years on,
no subsequent government has had the effrontery to annul the
programme, because the cost of the militants going back to the creeks is much
higher than the tokenism of the amnesty programme. So those who supported the
amnesty programmme for the Niger Delta
militants and are opposed to any form of deal with BH are being
clever by half. Then in 2015, when Operation Safe Corridor was
initiated by the government, the antagonists opposed it vehemently. However,
five years after, the story is different. Besides, my visit to their camp in
Malam Sidi in Gombe state recently was revealing. The programme
has not only changed the narrative in the war with BH, it is changing
lives; a life of near hermits in its raw form being made productive and useful
outside the BH enclave. In the first instance, the OPSC was meant to
integrate repentant and willing BH members who surrendered to the government
forces. Most of them were forcefully recruited or were brainwashed to join and
indoctrinated, while others did so because of some environmental and
socio-economic factors. Above all, after some years in the trenches, they
denounced their membership of BH and willingly submitted themselves to the
military before they were admitted to the camp, as attested to by
those I spoke to. Thus,  as I write this, 606 ex-BH members are in
the camp, and into one form of vocation or the other, while 280 had long
“graduated” and left the camp without issues so far. My interaction with
them (ex BH members) in the camp did not betray continued loyalty to
BH on their part anymore. What I saw were people happy about the choice
they had made; the choice to embrace peace with the hope to reintegrate with
their families as soon as possible and with a vocational skill to
boot. And contrary to the perception that they would be
recruited into the army after de-radicalization, Brigadier General Musa
Ibrahim, the commandant emphasized; “we are only giving them the opportunity to
become useful citizens and return to normal lives using a non-kinetic method in
order to put an end to the war and avoid further bloodshed”. General
Ashafa who said the OPSC was first of its kind in West Africa
is also optimistic that the programme would end the war in
no time, as more and more BH desert the war front and embrace peace. Notwithstanding their optimism, the BH war is not
really a conventional war where hostile groups take up arms against
each other. Ideological wars are much more difficult to end, and
de-radicalizing the mind and soul is not as easy either. However, with the
right education starting from childhood, it is hoped that the
generation after the current BH members will be better equipped in knowledge,
skills and employment opportunities to withstand any form of radicalization,
brainwashing, and indoctrination.