 The Senate Committee on Communications says it
was impressed by the various regulatory interventions which the Nigerian
Communications Commission (NCC) has taken to ensure improved service delivery
and bridging access gaps in the country. Senator Oluremi Tinubu, Chairman of the Committee,
who led other members of the Committee to NCC’s Head Office in Abuja on a
familiarisation and fact-finding visit on Tuesday (10/03/2020), said, given the
mammoth  of challenges facing the industry and the achievements of the
Commission so far,  its regulatory interventions and performance deserves
to be  appreciated and commended. The Committee members were received by the
Executive Management team of the Commission, led by Prof. Umar Danbatta, NCC’s
Executive Vice Chairman (EVC), who provided a detailed briefing of the
Commission’s core mandates, its various initiatives that have helped to improve
wider access to telecommunications as well as the challenges in the regulatory
environment, which formed the basis for the comments made by the Committee
members. “We are here on a familiarisation and
fact-finding tour to the Commission but I must say that we are impressed by the
presentation made by the Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta,
on the activities of the Commission so far in regulating the industry. “We particularly see the Platinum
Category Certificate of Award for exceptional organisational performance which
NCC received from the Bureau of Public Service Reforms (BPSR) in 2017 as a
testament to your recognition as a performing agency of the Federal 
Government. However, we want you to do more for Nigerians, ” Tinubu said. Earlier, while addressing the Committee
members, Danbatta reeled out industry statistics which, irrefutably captured
the growth recorded in the industry. According to him, Nigeria attained and
surpassed 30 percent broadband penetration target in December, 2018 and the
penetration has further increase to 38.49 per cent as of December, 2019. Also, Danbatta said the number of active phone
lines has increased to over 185 million; active Internet subscriptions on
global system for mobile communications (GSM), fixed wired and voice over
internet protocol (VoIP)  networks have equally increased to over 126
million. The EVC added that teledensity is 96.76 per
cent, and quarterly contribution of telecoms to gross domestic product (GDP)
has reached 10.60  per cent. The NCC, through the Universal Service
Provision Fund (USPF) has reduced the number of access-gaps clusters in the
country further from 114. Hitherto, some 38 million Nigerians were affected by
access gap clusters. Danbatta explained to the  Committee what
the Commission has done, so far, with respect to spectrum administration in the
sector. He stated that despite the crucial role of spectrum, and being a scarce
resoure, the Commission has deployed spectrum quite effectively for the
development of the telecom industry. Some of the clear goal-oriented programmes in
that regard include development of spectrum trading, ongoing effort to leverage
Television White Space (TVWS) to address rural connectivity, the Proof of
Concept (PoC) non-commercial trial of Fifth Generation (5G) networks, and
development guidelines on commercial satellites deployment. Danbatta stated that the Commission’s efforts
in licensing Infrastructure Companies (InfraCos) to cascade fibre optic into
the hinterland to reach all the 774 Local Government Areas (LGAs) in the
country, is succeeding and will bolster government’s effort at expanding the
nation’s broadband infrastructure. The EVC recalled various inter-agency collaborations,
frequent engagement of state governments to discuss issue of Right of Way
(RoW), multiple regulations, taxation and other challenges, are consciously
articulated towards improving deployment of telecoms infrastructure to ensure
improved services for the telecom consumers. The Commission, Danbatta said, has also issued
various Directions to Mobile Metwork Operators (MNOs) with respect to roll-over
data and forceful subscriptions to ensure that consumers are not shortchanged
by market forces. Similarly, Danbatta said the introduction of
Do-Not-Disturb (DND) 2442 Short Code to manage unsolicited messages, the
Toll-Free Number (622) for the escalation of complaints and the 112 Emergency
Communication Number which is connected to the Emergency Communication Centres
(ECCs), are conscious policies put in place to ensure that the rights of
telecom consumers are safeguarded and to ensure that Nigerians enjoy derivable
benefits of new communication  technologies. At the moment, eighteen (18) states of the
Federation currently have operational ECCs while the efforts are ongoing by the
Commission to ensure ECCs are operational in the remaining states in the
country. The EVC also told the Committee members that
the Commission is instrumental to the listing of MTN and Airtel on the Nigeria
Stock Exchange (NSE); resolved N1.03 trillion fine against MTN; promoted the
Code of Corporate Governance in the industry from voluntary to mandatory
compliance; developed new numbering plan to enhance opportunities for emerging
technologies; and restructured the telecoms value-added services (VAS) segment
resulting in licensing of 10 VAS aggregator companies, Danbatta, who appreciated the support of the
National Assembly so far, however, listed key issues affecting the regulatory
environment. These, he said, include power, which is the biggest challenge
facing telecommunications operations in the country; multiple regulations and
multiple regulations; security challenges, vandalism and theft of telecom
installations and transmission cable cuts; as well as RoW issue. The Committee members assured NCC of their
readiness to support the regulatory efforts of the Commission through
legislative intervention and other collaboration towards addressing the
challenges in the regulatory environment. They also urged the NCC to focus more on
increased access across the country as well as ensuring affordability of
telecoms services for Nigerians.