By Haruna Musa It was supposed to be a protest by aggrieved farmers against the Nigerian
Incentive-Based Risk Sharing System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL) for not
including them in the CBN sponsored Anchor Borrowers Programme (ABP), a scheme
which supports small scale farmers with funds, tractors and others to improve
yield. But instead, it was a carnival like procession of noisy youths carrying
placards with messages they  evdid not
understand. The National Assembly main entrance was taken over by dozens of
Hausa speaking youths who sang and danced to the lyrics and drumming of local
Hausa singers who arrived the NASS gate as part of the entourage of
‘protesting’ farmers. They displayed posters which demanded nothing in particular, but only
attacked NIRSAL and the ABP as a fraud, an omission which demonstrated these
were not farmers but a hired crowd. It even became more apparent when the
reporters interviewed some of their leaders as they contradicted each other. Asked if they were farmers, one said in Hausa that they were labourers and
immediately the other interjected “No, we’re farmers”! Then another confirmed
they were labourers who were sent to come and protest. “They said we should
gather at Jabi from where they brought us here, and they gave us one thousand Naira
each,” he said in Hausa as he danced in joy. One of the ‘protesters’ told this reporter they were mobilized by a
‘sanator’to come and demonstrate at the entrance of NASS but they did not know
why. “They just provided posters for us to carry and they said policemen would
escort us,” he told the reporter. Investigations  however  revealed that the protest was organized and
sponsored by Senator Yusuf Abubakar Yusuf, the Taraba senator said to be
obsessed with installing his wife as the next chief executive of NIRSAL. Using
his connection with a senior police officer in the Inspector General of
Police’s office, he secured police permit and escorts for the ‘protest.’ That
was why a handful of policemen were detailed to followed the boys to the gate
of NASS for the protest. Senator Yusuf was recently reported to be using his position as a member of
the Senate Committee on Banking, Insurance and Other Financial Institutions to
attack NIRSAL and portray it as a failure under the current management headed
by Aliyu Abdulhameed who is the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer. The end game is to portray Abdulhameed’s leadership as incompetent and
corrupt, and cause a protracted investigation of the agency and the MD which
would eventually lead to his replacement.  As a member of the senate
committee supervising the agency, he would be waiting to use his enormous
influence to project his wife Maryam, who is in one of the top management
positions at the organization, to take over as CEO of NIRSAL. A source familiar with the plot said the senator plans to “create a conflict
situation to provide valid reasons for government intervention. “Obviously, the
senator must have reasoned that such an intervention would better serve his
purpose. According to sources, this is part of the reasons ‘protests’ are being
sponsored against the institution and surreptitious moves made to discredit
NIRSAL. Meanwhile, a press statement issued by NIRSAL on Wednesday also said
miscreants staged protests outside NIRSAL offices in Abuja carrying placards
inscribed with “unsubstantiated and discredited allegations against NIRSAL,
NIRSAL’s Managing Director and the Central Bank of Nigeria.” The statement signed by Head of Corporate Communications, Anne Ihugba, said
the protesters carried  colorful flyers and placards accusing NIRSAL and
the CBN’s Anchor Borrowers Programme of “diverting farmers money” and “killing
farmers”, claims she described as “totally baseless.” She described the sponsored protests as a failed attempt to distort the
facts about verified contributions of NIRSAL such as the over N100 billion facilitated
from the financial sector into the agricultural sector which is improving the
lives of farmers across the country. She said the attempt to discredit the work
of the institution by “persons who do not mean well” was bound to fail as
“facts do not lie.” But according to Ihugba, NIRSAL took the protests as opportunity to further
enlighten the youths on what the institution was doing to turn agriculture into
a thriving industry in the country. She said: “Though NIRSAL found the inauspicious visit as an opportunity to
engage and enlighten more young people on its agribusiness initiatives and the
promise they hold, the protest smacked of witch-hunting and a well-crafted
agenda to smear the organization. Questioned individually, the boys admitted to
belonging to no ABP tickets and were in fact recruited from Abuja and environs,
particularly from areas such as Mararaba, Mabushi and Jabi. This negates the
claim that they are farmers from Kebbi State. “To be absolutely clear, all successful ABP applications for the 2019
farming seasons have been honoured by NIRSAL. As required by the guidelines
issued by the Central Bank, farmers with incomplete loan documentations are
prevented from accessing the funds in their accounts until they meet the
obligations.” One of the farmers who benefitted from the ABP told this reporter that
there was no genuine farmer in the country who would protest against NIRSAL
“because NIRSAL has helped so many farmers across the country.” Ihugba also revealed that NIRSAL made an interesting discovery which confirm
our investigations. She disclosed that after talking to the youths, some of the
protesters revealed that they knew nothing about NIRSAL’s operations and
admitted that were sponsored to protest against NIRSAL. Insiders said  that the  senator’s obsession to install his wife at the
helm of affairs at NIRSAL is so strong that nothing is too mean or sacrosanct.
That is why an institution like NIRSAL, which supports agriculture, a key
programme of the Muhammadu Buhari administration, can become the target of
corrosive attacks because of one man’s bloated ego. A friend of the Senator  however
recently told Newsdiaryonline that the  claims about his alleged plot are laughable. “This
alleged plot is a hatchet job. You guys need to do alot to know  what is happening at NIRSAL,” the friend of  the Senator said.