 By Haruna Salami The Joint Committee of Senate and
House of Representatives investigating the breach of Nigerian laws by foreign
vessels in coastal shipping of petroleum  products  in downstream
sector of the Nigerian Maritime Industry has given the GMD, NNPC, Mallam Mele Kyari
and D. G. NIMASA, . Dakuku Peterside ultimatum to appear before it to forestall
the invocation of the relevant section of the Constitution. The directive was given Tuesday
during the joint committee meeting of Petroleum Downstream, Local Content and
Legislative Compliance by the joint Chairman, Senator Teslim Folarin. It will be recalled that the joint
committee investigating breach of Nigerian laws by foreign vessel invited
stakeholders last Tuesday to a public hearing in the National Assembly. At that hearing, which NNPC was also
absent, Dr. Mkgeorge Onyung, President of Shipowners Association of Nigeria,
SOAN told committee many of the ordeals his members pass through at in the
hands of  NNPC in the award of contracts in favour of foreign vessel
owners. However, at this rescheduled
meeting, NNPC and NIMASA were represented, but this didn’t impress the
committee as they walked out their representatives with the stern warning that
failure of the chief executives to appear in person at the meeting, the
committee will be left with no option but to invoke the Constitution. This may
entail issuance of warrant of arrest. At the last meeting, the Chairman of the  House Committee
on Nigeria content, Hon. Ochiglegor Idagbo has said that the current 9th
National Assembly, as constituted, would not fold it hands and allow anybody or
Institution to keep disobeying the laws of  Nigeria. The lawmaker representing Bekwara/Obudu/Obanliku federal
constituency said the investigative hearing was quite revealing, having listen
to the Ships Owners Association of Nigeria, it is clearer that the Nigeria
National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC is in contravention of section 105 of the
nautical act which says that only Nigerian indigenous ship owners should drive
our coastal waters.” Unfortunately, NNPC GMD, Mele Kyari and NIMASA boss only sent
representatives,  not acceptable to the
committee, hence the threat to invoke the relevant sections of the Constitution
to compel them to attend.