For allegedly maligning his
reputation and making him out as a liar, a journalists and human rights
advocate, Lemmy Ughegbe has instituted a libel suit against Media Trust Ltd,
publishers of Daily Trust Newspaper with a claim of N500 Million as damages for
the alleged libellous publication. In the suit filed by his counsel,
Barrister Dele Gbadeyan, which named Media Trust Ltd and Mr. John Chuks Azu as
1st and 2nd defendants, the claimant ((Ughegbe) said the said publication has
caused grave damage to his reputation and businesses with several clients and
friends, severing ties from him. The claimant had on February 1, 2020
while examining the judgment of Justice Yusuf Halilu, which convicted Maryam
Sanda over the killing of her husband during an interview on ARISE NEWS, said
“the judge committed a fatal blunder when he failed to consider the preliminary
objection and rule on it, one way or the other before delivering his judgment.”
According to him, it is settled law that Justice Halilu’s failure to rule on
this the said preliminary objection was a compelling ground to for Ms. Sanda to
seek for its nullification upon appeal. However, Daily Trust in a Fact Check
captioned “Did the Judge ignore ruling on a preliminary objection in Maryam
Sanda’s case?” published on February 4, 2020 declared that the judge ruled on
the preliminary objection on February 5, 2018 contrary to the claims made by
Ughegbe. Speaking at a press conference in
Abuja,he  said ‘ while Daily Trust made
me out as a liar by this publication, thereby reducing my estimation before
right thinking members of the public, a Certified True Copy (CTC) of the
records of court proceedings showed clearly that the preliminary objection was
filed on February 7, 2018 and argued on March 19, 2018. It is therefore curious
how Daily Trust Newspapers would suggest that a judge ruled on an application
two days before it was even filed and about fifteen days before it was argued
upon.’ In the writ of summons filed by the
claimant’s lawyer, Ughegbe averred that the said publication of February 4,
2020 portrayed him as “a liar, someone with a low moral rectitude who is ready
to mislead the public even on very grave issues as murder trial, and unreliable
person.” The claimant, who is also a school
owner and a media consultant, said the said publication has caused him
reputation damage, consequently leading to a dip in his business fortune. He therefore wants the court to
grant him the following reliefs: · A declaration that the publication
titled “FACT – CHECK: Did judge ignore a preliminary objection in Maryam
Sanda’s case?” and published on the Daily Trust website on the 4th of February,
2020 is defamatory of the person of the Claimant. · A declaration that the Claimant is
entitled to public apology by all the Defendants. · An order directing the Defendants
to publicly apologize to the Claimant by publishing the said apology in the
Defendant’s newspaper for one week. · Five Hundred Million Naira
(N500,000,000.00) being damages against the Defendants for the said defamation.