 In
a bid to stem the spread of the Coronavirus, the Federal Capital Territory
Administration will enforce the cessation of movement order placed on the FCT
by President Muhammadu Buhari to the letter. The
Honourable Minister of the FCT Malam Muhammad Musa Bello said this following an
emergency security meeting convened on Monday to discuss the modalities of enforcing the
lockdown of the FCT for 14 days. In
a late briefing after the emergency meeting which was attended by the heads of
the various military formations, paramilitary agencies and senior
administrative staff of the FCTA, the Minister, in his words said that “all organs of the FCT Security Services and other
government agencies have agreed and worked out modalities to ensure that all
entry and exit points of the FCT and by extension, other satellite towns, are
manned by relevant officials to ensure that everybody stays home” While reiterating that the best way of overcoming the disease is
by being disciplined and following all the prescribed measures by the health
authorities which includes staying indoors with the exception of those legally
permitted to move around, Malam Bello said that defaulters will be arrested and
prosecuted. In his words “I
want to also reiterate that except those that have been allowed and are
exempted from this cessation of movement, all other citizens and residents of
the FCT are enjoined to stay indoors. Where these regulations are flouted, I
want to emphasize that the security agencies have been empowered to arrest and
prosecute defaulters because we will not allow any individual or groups, as a
result of their inability to honour this medical advice, jeopardize the health of
multiples because as has been shown the world over, one of the greatest weapons
to fight this disease is confinement and containment in one place. That way,
contact tracing becomes much easier and those that are infected are easily
provided medical services” On the palliative
measures being put in place to cushion the effect of the cessation of movement
on the more vulnerable members of the society, the Minister said that the FCT
Palliative Committee is headed by the Hon. Minister of State, Dr Ramatu Tijjani
Aliyu and will be supported by the Chairman of the six Area Councils,
traditional and religious authorities, NGOs and other support groups. The Minister also
said that the FCT already had modalities in place to identify the truly
indigent members of society that will require assistance. According to him
“the system of identifying vulnerable people within the FCT community is
already in place, using the 60-ward structure of INEC, as well as the
traditional and religious authorities. Within every community, those that are
vulnerable are known and also, under our Social Development Secretariat, we
already have a database of vulnerable people that have been taken care of under
the conditional cash transfer”. The FCTA, the
Minister continued, will also tap into the data base of religious groups that
already have records of the indigent in their various communities whom they
have been assisting even prior to the current outbreak of Covid 19. Malam Bello once
more reminded the residents of the FCT of their individual and collective
responsibilities in fighting the disease. Quoting President Muhammadu Buhari,
Malam Bello said ‘as individuals, we remain the greatest weapon in fighting COVID
19. So, I’m appealing to all residents of the FCT to stay indoors and abide by
all the regulations of the health and security authorities. Malam Bello also
revealed that he was tested for COVID 19 and his results came out as negative.