 Athletes representing the Nigerian
National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) saw off stiff competition from Industry counterparts
to emerge champions at the 2020 edition of the Nigeria Oil and Gas Industry
Games (NOGIG) which came to a scintillating climax over the weekend at the
Teslim Balogun Stadium, Surulere, Lagos. To achieve the feat, the NNPC amassed
48 medals, including 13 Gold, 16 Silver, and 19 Bronze to narrowly beat Shell
to second position with 13 Gold, eight Silver, and ten Bronze, for a haul
of 31 medals. The Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas
Limited (NLNG) finished third with 23 medals, including six Gold, seven Silver
and 10 Bronze to complete the top three standing out of the thirteen
participating teams. Speaking shortly before performing
the ceremonial kick-off for the final football match, Minister of State for
Petroleum, Chief Timipre Sylva said NOGIG overtime had emerged as a veritable
platform for healthy competition among the Industry workforce, noting that
government would continue to support such positive engagement. In his remarks, the Group Managing
Director, GMD, NNPC, Mallam Mele Kyari, assured guests that the corporation
would continue to give attention to sporting activities in a bid to foster
unity among the workers in the Oil and Gas Industry. Kyari informed the audience that Industry
stakeholders placed a lot of premium on the games because it serves as a platform
to promote sportsmanship, friendship and networking opportunities among
management and staff of the Industry. The NNPC GMD reserved special
commendation for team NNPC for the hard work that went into their emergence as
the best team in the most prestigious game for the Oil and Gas Industry in
Nigeria. “Looking at the amount and
quality of time, interfaces, logistics, facilities and the general coordination
of sportsmen and women across the entire Oil and Gas Industry, I can
confidently say that it is a huge feat. “I understand that since 1986
when this competition was started by a group of sportsmen and women in Eket,
Akwa Ibom State, the biennial tournament has grown to become a formidable
platform for the promotion of healthy competition. “Although there is a stiff
competition (among participants) the underlying principle of the games has
always been hinged on exhibiting friendship, sportsmanship, and networking
where fruitful partnership and collaboration are taken beyond showpiece, he said.’ The climax of the closing day of
competition was the final of the football event which saw NNPC football team beat
the Department of Petroleum Resources, DPR  2-0 in a pulsating encounter
in the main bowl of the Teslim Balogun Stadium. The captain of Team NNPC NOGIG 2020, Ogechi
Anusionwu, commended the performance of her team, adding that it would serve as
motivation for better productivity. “I am so happy winning this 18th
NOGIG, it has been a great collaboration of all the team members and the
management of the NNPC. “This feat will serve as motivation
to us to continue to give our best in the workplace and I thank the management
immensely for their supports and cooperation, she said. Tagged Celebrating Champions in the
Oil and Gas Industry, NOGIG 2020 was attended by Industry giants such as NNPC,
Chevron, Petroleum Training Institute (PTI), Department of Petroleum Resources,
(DPR) ENI Agip, Exxon Mobil, Eroton Exploration and Production and Seplat. Others are, TOTAL, Liquefied Natural
Gas Limited, (LNG) and Nigeria Content Development and Monitoring Board
(NCDMB). Dignitaries at the closing ceremony
included the representative of Lagos State Governor and the Chairman, Lagos
State Sports Commission, (LSSC), Sola Ayepeku, and other captains of the Oil
and Gas Industry among others.