The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), has sought the  partnership and collaboration of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) for the successful hosting of this year’s edition of the Information Communication Technology and Telecommunications (ICTEL) Expo. The request was made by Leye
Kupoluyi, LCCI Vice President, when he led a delegation of the Chamber to the
Commission on a courtesy visit. The delegation led by Kupoluyi was received at
the Communications and Digital Economy Complex Building, Mbora, Abuja at the
weekend. Ismail Adedigba, Acting Head of
Consumer Affairs Bureau (CAB) at NCC, received the LCCI team on behalf of Prof.
Umar Danbatta, NCC’s Executive Vice Chairman and Chief Executive. Speaking during the visit, Kupoluyi,
who commended the Commission for its role in driving further growth of
Information and Communications Technology (ICT); and for its unflinching
commitment to providing universal access in the country, also lauded NCC 
for its consistency in supporting successful hosting of previous ICTEL Expos. Kupoluyi said LCCI’s objective for
the visit was to deliberate with the Management of the Commission on its
upcoming 6th edition of the ICTEL Expo holding later this year with the theme:
“Exploring Opportunities in Digital Economy.” Kupoluyi stated that the theme of
the expo is so directly connected to the activities of NCC as the regulatory
authority for telecommunications in Nigeria. “Over the years, NCC has been
supportive and remained a partner for progress to LCCI, and the successes so
far recorded in the past five editions of ICTEL Expo would not have been
possible without the support of NCC,” he said. Kupoluyi further underscored the
desirability of having NCC as an event partner at the 2020 edition of the expo
by emphasising that in today’s world, ICT/telecommunications has become an
enabler for businesses, improved health care delivery, and e-agriculture among
others. “Hence, the participation of
the NCC will further underscore the significance of the theme of the event and
enhance the dialogue on how we can jointly explore opportunities in digital
economy to the benefits of our organisations,  members of LCCI and the
country in general,” he said. Responding, Adedigba reaffirmed
NCC’s commitment to partnership and collaboration because strategic
collaboration is the fifth item on the 8-Point Agenda of the Commission. He
also said the Commission is always ready and willing to promote a win-win
partnership and collaboration with relevant stakeholders towards advancing the
frontiers of the ICT industry as an enabler to the economic growth and
development of Nigeria. Adedigba, however, told the LCCI
team that its request with respect to Commission’s participation and support
for the upcoming 6th edition of the ICTEL Expo, would be conveyed to NCC
Management for consideration.