 By Manasseh Istifanus Ever since he became the Governor of
Kaduna State, there have been series of accusations by a few self-entitled
elites,  who have never liked Malam Nasir El Rufai from the beginning.
Needless to say that,   this tiny but vocal majority  may never
like him no matter what he does. For this reason, they are  using all
kinds of propaganda to give a negative narrative of the man. In fact, these critics
have been running El Rufai down  since 2014 but the common man  knows
a leader that means well for the State when he sees one. Invariably, 
against their flawed projections, El Rufai won  the 2015 election. Four
years later, the people gave him another term to continue with the good works
that he has started. As former capital of Northern
Nigeria and the third most populous sub-national, Kaduna is a complex State
which comprises 23 disparate  Local Government Areas. So, every decision,
policy and appointment is, to use El Rufai’s words, ‘’religionised and
ethnicised’’.  However, Malam has been fair and firm, bold and decisive as
well as equitable in the distribution of resources since he became Governor,
across the three senatorial districts. On the other hand, critics like to see
him differently because they have invented a false matrix of assessment. In
this regard, they prefer to assess the spread of dividends of democracy in
terms of Northern  and Southern Kaduna, instead of the senatorial zones; a
deliberate misrepresentation to deceive the gullible. Interestingly, the
political elite  of Southern Kaduna  Senatorial district  are
the arrow-heads of this re-classification. In the last five odd years, Governor
El Rufai has been fair to all and sundry and a few examples will suffice here. When his administration
declared  a State of Emergency on the education sector, hundreds of
primary schools across the 23 Local Government Areas were selected for
renovation and upgrading. There was no ward  that did not benefit from
that massive schools renovation and construction of new blocks of classrooms,
toilets and the provision of water to schools. Similarly, three Model Secondary
Schools were selected in each of the three Senatorial districts for upgrade. In
Zone 1, or Northern Senatorial district, Alhuda – Huda College, Zaria, Barewa
College Zaria and Science Secondary School Soba were selected and renovated. In
Zone 2, also known as Kaduna Central Senatorial district,  Government
Girls Secondary School, Kawo, Government College  Kurmin Mashi and Queen
Amina College,  Kakuri were selected and renovated. Likewise, 
Government Girls College Zonkwa, Government College, Kagoro and Girls Science
School   Kwoi were selected and renovated in Zone 3 or Southern Senatorial
district. Similarly,  Governor El Rufai  had  initiated the
establishment of six Science Secondary Schools, with two in each of the
three  Senatorial districts. The two schools for  Southern Kaduna
were sited in Kagarko and Manchok. How fairer  can any administration be? In the  Health sector, the
Governor initiated the Renovation (and Construction where there is none), 
of Primary Health Centers in each of the 255 wards of the state. Indeed, 
most of them have been completed and are already  in use . In 2017, the
state government selected three  major General Hospitals for upgrade,
one  in each of the three  Senatorial zones. In Zone 1, Hajiya Gambo
Sawaba General Hospital, Zaria was picked and upgraded with state of the art
equipment. In Zone 2, Yusuf Dantsoho General Hospital, Tudun Wada was similarly
upgraded. In Zone 3, Sir Patrick Yakowa General Hospital, Kafanchan was treated
in same manner. In fact, of all the upgraded  Hospitals, only the Sir
Patrick Yakowa Hospital, Kafanchan took delivery of a CT Scan Machine. Where
is  injustice in all of this? In addition, the Governor awarded
contracts for the construction at least 10 kilometres  of township
roads   in each of the 23 Local Government headquarters.
However,  due to paucity of funds, most of the projects were not
executed.  In spite of this,  El Rufai  ensured that one Local
Government in each of the three  Senatorial zones  had their township
roads completed. In Zone 1, Zaria Local Government township roads were
completed. Similarly, in Zone 2, the township roads in  Kaduna South Local
Government  were completed. Likewise, Kachia Local Government township
roads were completed and afterwards,  the contractor moved to Gwantu in
Sanga Local Government and work is ongoing. What can be more fair than this? Specifically,  the
administration has embarked upon major roads   construction across
the State. Notable among them in Zone 3 are the Kagoma township roads, Kubacha
– Shadalafiya– Chigwa road, the 23 Kilometres  Yarvan – Ayagan – Sakwak –
Kamurum – Kanem – Kurdan – Zauru – Kafanchan road. Instructively, that road
is  the single most expensive road project that the El Rufai
administration has ever awarded. Yet, the people are complaining. If political patronage is a basis
for political followership, the Governor has exhibited magnanimity by
appointing people from Zone 3 to head key ministries, even though he got the
least number of votes from the area. Between 2015 and 2017, appointees from
Zone 3 headed the Ministry Health, Education and Agriculture. In fact, those
ministries control  more than 70% of the state budget for five years
running. In spite of this, the image of El-Rufai as an unfair leader persisted
in the mindsets of the political elites of the senatorial district. By whipping
up sentiments and political manipulations, the Governor could not attract
political followership from the people of the Zone. Indeed,   the worst
situation was  Kagoma in Jema’a Local Government area, which 
 had three  Commissioners, one member of the  Interim Management
Committee(IMC)  and other appointments. In addition,  all  their
township roads were completed; yet, the Governor lost the 2019 election
woefully in that ward. Usually, good should be   reciprocated with
good but not in this case. Significantly, some people in Zone 3
have accused Governor El Rufai of being lackadaisical over the insecurity in
the Senatorial district. However, the facts do not support this baseless
allegation. In 2015,  as part of his multi-dimensional approach in finding
lasting solution to the security challenges, the Governor had to set up a Peace
and Reconciliation Committee  headed by Lt Gen. Martin Luther Agwai (rtd).
Amongst other things, the committee was tasked to guide the government to end
the incessant attacks and reprisals in parts of the Kaduna South Senatorial
Zone,  which spiked  from 2011 post presidential election,  to
the time El Rufai  assumed office. Equally, the Committee was saddled with
the responsibility of identifying the socio-political and economic factors that
promote existing conflicts in the Zone. Also, it was asked   to
advise Government on measures  to address them. The State Government has
implemented the committee’s recommendations by establishing the Kaduna State
Peace Commission, the establishment of the Nigerian Army ‘’Operation Forward’’
Base at Kafanchan and the expansion of the State Security Council, 
where  the Emir of Birnin Gwari and the KpopGwong were made members. How
then  is El Rufai complicit in the attacks in the area? Recently, the  government
embarked on a massive Urban Renewal Projects, to partly address the
infrastructural deficit in the State. In addition, the projects are 
aimed  at improving the state’s competiveness, supporting  economic
activities  and promoting  the wellbeing of the people. There are
different components of the urban renewal and they include roads construction,
provision of mass transit, housing and  improved land use, as well as
providing parks and recreational centers, including markets and
neighborhood  waste management centres. The Urban Renewal Projects have
since begun within the Kaduna Metropolis and will soon commence in the 
 two other major cities of Zaria and Kafanchan.   Specifically,
Zones 1,2 and 3 will all benefit from the renewal project. So, where is the
allegation of lopsided execution of projects? Like him or loathe  him, Malam
Nasir El -Rufai is someone that can’t be intimidated,  stampeded or blackmailed
into taking  action based on primordial sentiments.   Certainly,
he is not a biased or wicked leader but a bold and courageous one who takes
action in the best interest of all, believing that serving humanity is the best
form of public service and worship. Istifanus is a Special
Assistant in Kaduna State Government