The South-South Governors Forum on Thursday resolved to form a regional
security outfit to check crimes and criminality in their region. The forum’s resolution was made known by Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta when he
addressed newsmen at the end of their meeting in Government House, Asaba. According to Okowa, the governors agreed that the regional security outfit
would help address the numerous security challenges in their respective states. He said: “I am sure you know the five governors standing here out of the six
governors in the South South; We have just finished our governors forum
meeting. “Unfortunately, the Cross River Governor, Ben Ayade, was held back in Abuja
and could not make it to the meeting. “We took very far-reaching decisions and I must thank my brothers for
attending this meeting.” Okowa said that the forum agreed that the BRACED an acronym for (Bayelsa,
Rivers, Akwa Ibom, Cross River, Edo and Delta) Commission would work out the
modalities for the security outfit. “We took decision concerning the BRACED Commission which was established 10
years ago by our colleagues who were governors before we came on board. “We have decided to restart the commission and ensure we provide the
necessary logistics for it to function properly. “The commission is to help us look into the issues of regional economy and
the need to collectively develop our region instead of working as individual
states. “A lot have been done in terms of documentation in the past five years. We
have agreed to restart the commission with the headquarter in River State.” He lauded Amb. Joe Keshi, the Director-General of BRACED commission, adding
that a lot of documentation had been done by the commission. The governor said that the forum would have its next meeting in few weeks
time in Port Harcourt when the commission would brief it on the modalities of
operating the regional security outfit. “We also discussed the issues of Federation Accounts Allocation. We agreed
that the 13 per cent derivation fund should be deducted before the revenue
derived from oil is shared. “This 13 per cent derivation fund is supposed to be for the oil-producing
states and we have agreed as governors to take up this matter at the
appropriate level,” he said. Okowa said the governors also discussed issues pertaining to the Niger Delta
Development Commission (NDDC) and had asked that President Muhammad Buhari
constitute the governing board immediately. He said that NDDC was capable of developing the region through the execution
of good protects rather than the pockets of projects currently being executed
in the region. The forum chairman said that the governors also agreed to set up a medical
team to apply regional approach to check the incidences of Lassa fever and the
Coronavirus. “We took the decision that Commissioners for Health from the region will
meet immediately to look into how to contain Lassa fever and also consider how
to tackle the issue of coronavirus in case it extends to this region. “At the moment, we do not have any known case of Covid-19,” Okowa said The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the governors forum meeting
lasted for about three hours. Those in attendance were: Okowa of Delta, Nyesom Wike of Rivers, Udom
Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom,  Douye Diri of Bayelsa and Godwin Obaseki of Edo.
(NAN).