 I commend  the statesmanship of Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna
State for his weekend status full disclosure as a Coronavirus case in Nigeria.
His honest  and audacious disclosure was timely in removing remaining
ignorance among some citizens. It was a  wake up call for all  that
this rampaging virus scourge is  real. By this singular act, Governor Nasir and other statesmen who
were open about their status, had offered necessary leadership to
convince  those  still in an unhelpful denial.  COVID-19 is a
reality. It is  a rampaging classless, gender and race blind, faith-blind
virus. Coronavirus  is indeed indiscriminate but it can still be
damned,  controlled through non-denial and respect for the rules of global
public resistance against it. Governor Nasir El-Rufai had rightly 
submitted to COVID-19 test and in line with the protocol managing the COVID
-19, self-isolates  as requested by the Nigerian Centre for Disease
Control (NCDC)- for cases showing no symptoms. It’s time for all compatriots to
heed the advise by the Governor and public health authorities in general to
observe preventive measures, “stay home and stay alive”. The point cannot be overstated that the cases
are still increasing. The historic battle is not for governments alone.
Organized  labour, civil societies  and organized businesses must
compliment. Employers must invest in particular on the protection of essential
health workers  and control of the disease. The Federal Government must
urgently revive the tripartite National Labour Advisory Council ( NLAC) made up
of workers, employers  and government with proactive coordinated and
strategic interventions to minimize the impact of the Virus. All labour market Institutions such as
negotiating councils must be reactivated in both private and private sectors
for  innovative, problem-solving agreements to ensure that workers don’t
suffer loss of lives and earnings, wages and pensions during the ongoing lock
down. The tripartite National Labour Advisory Council (NLAC) should urgently
establish a SITUATION ROOM/ PLATFORM/ FORUM. Nigeria reportedly had  only
300 tested cases compared to South Africa which had reportedly carried out over
20,000 tests. We can only pray that the cases at hand are not huge. There is
certainly a considerable room for a robust bipartisan collaboration in Nigeria
and in Africa as a whole to prevent worsening Virus  against the
background of the existing daunting health challenges of ever persisting
Malaria, Ebola and  Lassa fever, which had killed more than  Corona
Virus. It is
commendable that the Governor of CBN, Godwin Emefiele initiated proactive
6-point new measures to ameliorate the impact of the disease on the economy
that include: Cuts rates from 9 to 5 percent per annum for one year effective
March 1, 2020, Grants extension of moratorium on all CBN intervention facilities
effective March 1, 2020 and  N50bn targeted credit facility through NIRSAL
Microfinance Bank for households and small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs)
hard hit by Covid-19. It is also significant and commendable that
President Muhammadu Buhari had promptly approved a 10 billion Naira grant (about $27 million) to fight
the spread of coronavirus, or COVID-19, and  already released to Lagos
State, which is still counting  the highest number of coronavirus cases.
Post coronavirus calls for sustainable prompt budget releases. The current
crisis had exposed the underbelly of poor governance characterized by endemic
complacency, delays, sheer indifference and unnecessary competition among
government agencies. It is great that the Federal House  passed
the Emergency Economic Stimulus Bill, 2020 to complement the plans of the
Executive arm. We must operate collectively and make sure that Coronavirus as
an opportunistic disease does  not defeat us separately. This is NOT the
time for uncritical cut in public spending. Already Nigeria has lowest budget
per capital in the world. Additional reduction in the size of the 2020 budget
by about N1.5 trillion, as part of the measures to address the impact of Corona
virus disease on the Nigerian economy will only undermine economic recovery and
employment creation. CBN has rightly directed that all Deposit Money Banks
should increase their support to the pharmaceutical and healthcare industries
and support for funding intensive care as well as in training, laboratory testing,
equipment and R&D. The Bank has increased financial intervention
by N100 billion in loan this year to support the Health Authorities to ensure
laboratories, researchers and innovators work with global scientists to patent
and or produce vaccines and test kits.  Nigeria needs a radical departure
from the age long unhelpful neoliberal economics of wholesale liberalization,
cuts in public spending, factory closures and export orientation. It’s time for
urgent diversification, import substitution, re-Industrialization and
beneficiation. This is the time to re- inflate the economy as
commendably being done by the CBN .At $30 dollars per barrels, Nigeria is far
from being broke. On the contrary it’s time to move from export of crude to
refining, save scarce foreign exchange and create sustainable Decent jobs. CBN
has promised to increase intervention in boosting local manufacturing and
import substitution by another N1trillion across all critical sectors of the
economy  that include textile and garment sector. 2020 budget proposed as
much as N2.45 trillion (almost a quarter of the budget!) into Debt servicing. With coronavirus crisis, the  debts
service allocations are simply unsustainable. N2.45 trillion into Debt
servicing is more than N2.14 trillion of capital expenditure!. It is time to
review downward N125 billion statutory allocation scandalously allocated 
to the  National Assembly of some 500 senators and legislators.  
Indeed the budget per capital of the National Assembly at N266,524,520.30per
legislator dwarfs the national budget per capital of about N57,388.88. The  total allocation to the National
Assembly almost equals the total sums of N44.5 billion for the Basic Health
Care Provision Fund (BHCPF) and N111.79 billion for the Universal Basic Education
Commission (UBEC) expected to impact on millions of citizens. Nigeria needs
pandemic- sensitive budget! The lockdown must be complemented with direct and
targeted social transfer to the poor in formal and informal sectors whose per
day incomes are engendered. With the spirited national efforts, this
singular pandemic will come to pass, but the poverty and underdevelopment
challenges would persist. Corona Virus crisis is  another costly
opportunity to reinvent an economy like China’s  with   remarkable resilience
that has in record time tamed the Virus restoring growth and development.
Meanwhile as we are under lock and key against an invisible virus, ask about
your neighbors and send relief materials for neighbors in need. Issa Aremu mni