By Emmanuel Ado

“You have enemies? Good. That means you have stood up for something.” 
Winston Churchill


Idowu Akinlotan is a confirmed loathing hater of Nasir El-Rufai, an attribute
that virtually every columnist or presenter working in the Bola Ahmed Tinubu
media empire have in commonality. But the columnists of the various titles of
The Nation are clearly the worse with their propensity to peddle utter
falsehoods against Mallam Nasir El-Rufai, the Governor of Kaduna State. The
unprovoked malice towards El-Rufai, by The Nation newspapers will expectedly
get worse and more reckless by 2021 when political activities are expected to
heat up. This is understandable considering that the stakes are high and the
fact that the Nigerian Press Council, the body set up to check the kind of
recklessness by The Nation newspapers hasn’t lived up to expectations of
stakeholders, like the Nigerian Broadcasting Commission(NBC) which has
considerably curbed the rascality of the electronic arm of the Bola Tinubu
media empire. So while the television (TVC) presenters are slightly more
restrained in their attacks on the person of El-Rufai, the three newspaper
titles are increasingly by day more reckless, vicious and relentless in their
blistering attacks. 

Bola Tinubu’s media empire has consistently waged a concerted media war against
El – Rufai, whose only crime is the perception that he is a stumbling block to
the presidential ambition of Bola Ahmed Tinubu their mentor. Of the lot Idowu
Akinlotan is apparently the most notorious with several anti-El-Rufai articles
to his credit and certainly deserves the “Defender of Asiwaju Award”. There is
“The Waspish El-Rufai”, “El-Rufai’s Political Gambit and Kajuru killings”,
El-Rufai’s Hate Speech Signposts Danger” and “Who Will Rein in APC’s Little
Tyrants” etc. The common thread in Akinlotan’s satanic write ups which
invariably informs his conclusions is El-Rufai’s defeat. In “ El- Rufai’s
political gambit and Kajuru Killings” he not only called for the defeat of
El-Rufai in the 2019 General Elections, but that Kaduna voters deserve to have
their heads examined if they ever made the mistake of returning him to power.
Hear him: “If he is returned to office on March 9, Kaduna State will have
indicated beyond a shadow of doubt that they are inspired by values that leave
a majority of Nigerians befuddled.” The Nigerians that were befuddled were
certainly the members of the Bola Tinubu political family,who had sponsored the
likes of Shehu Sani to ensure the actualization of that wish. 

The other columnists of The Nation newspapers who have used and continue to use
El-Rufai to prove their unalloyed loyalty to the ultimate godfather -Bola Ahmed
– are Festus Eriye(El-Rufai the godfather Slayer”) Segun
Ayobolu(El-Rufai’s thoughts and non – thoughts on godfatherism”) and Sam
Omatseye(A Divider In Chief Of Kaduna Politics – El Rufai double
talk”),but Akinlotan is certainly in a class of his own and deserves
commendation for admitting that the acerbic articles by him and his other
colleagues is their corporate reaction to “Nasir El Rufai’s inflammatory
remarks against the Bola Ahmed Tinubu”, especially his manuscript on how
godfathers can be defeated. 

Though the template for the defeat of godfathers was not directed at Tinubu, so
how members of his political family concluded that because El-Rufai delivered
the speech in the godfathers backyard, that it was targeted at Tinubu. Unknown
to The Nation columnists and reporters is that by fighting real and imaginary
battles of their master Tinubu, they have not only disabused the common
assumption that the media can be neutral, but have confirmed that serving
public interest is most often secondary. As political activities heat up, the
prayer of most politicians is that The Nation columnists should continue to
burn the bridges that Tinubu needs if he is to actualize his ambition, so that
by 2022 he would have further ostracized a substantial number of party members
who in the first place have problems with his leadership style. 

The irony of Re:Canonisation of el-Rufai at 60 by Idowu Akinlotan is that while

Bola Ahmed Tinubu,the ultimate godfather of Lagos State and the man whose
determination to succeed Muhammadu Buhari wrote a beautiful birthday tribute to
congratulate El-Rufai on his 60th birthday, the likes of Akinlotan were left
with the task of viciously savaging him. Like the popular saying goes, don’t
fear the enemy that attacks you,but the fake friend that hugs you- who the cap
fits,let him wear it. The motive behind the strident attacks on El- Rufai is
the 2023 presidential election, which is in spite of his unequivocal support
for a Southern president after eight (8) years of Muhammadu Buhari. Tinubu has
not hidden his “ambitious desire” to contest and to wage a war against anyone
that he perceives to be an obstacle. It is obvious that the unrelenting attack
by the Tinubu political camp is a product of fear that some “certain” political
realities might make El-Rufai run. 

The root of the problem The Nation newspaper columnists have with El-Rufai
which they have bluntly refused to disclose to their readers is the refusal of
El-Rufai to endorse the presidential aspirations of Bola Tinubu. And most
unfortunate is their refusal to accept that endorsing or refusing to endorse
Tinubu is well within El-Rufai’s fundamental rights. The apparent lack of
political awareness explains the resort to intimidation,rather than marketing
Tinubu,a strategy that is not only dumb, but counter productive as they ought
to know that El-Rufai is definitely not the kind of person that orchestrated
and vexatious articles would brow beat into submission. So rather than
intimidate El-Rufai, their attacks have further widened the political
differences between both men. It’s a shame that The Nation columnists have by
their apparent lack of strategy caused Tinubu the support of El-Rufai -a man
whose word is his bond, who when the chips are down,can be counted upon to
stand up for what he believes is right. 

In his opening paragraph Akinlotan made many fallacious statements that he
never bothered to back up with any concrete evidence,rather he passed on his
very subjective views on El- Rufai as being commonly held by a reasonable
number of people, while in actual fact they are Akinlotan’s opinion or at best
that of the Tinubu political family. Facts like we know are indisputable
truths, while opinions are someone’s perspective or judgment(s). For instance
Akinlotan’s opinion that a cake tastes delicious might not be shared by many
other people,which is why his unsubstantiated statements about El-Rufai
products of deep hatred should be ignored. If Akinlotan is serious in
validating those warped opinions, he should conduct a national survey on
El-Rufai and he will most certainly be shocked by the results of the
survey,like he was at the caliber of men and women that honoured him on his
birthday,which in the first place provoked this hate filled article,maybe then
and only then will Akinlotan stop making his spurious statements like El-Rufai
“being positively controversial” or that at “60 years of age, he has done
supremely well for himself, to the envy of his considerably more gifted, less
controversial and even-tempered contemporaries”. Like Nigerians would say this
clearly is original black belle! Akinlotan should have told his readers how
this is El-Rufai’s problem- if those more gifted than him are less successful.
Doesn’t this say something about him considering that he is a true rag to
riches story? 

Akinlotan asserts as usual without any evidence, that “Of all the country’s
governors, it is doubtful whether any of them has become a cynosure of
attention like him(El-Rufai), not even the daring and confrontational Godwin
Obaseki of Edo State”. Of course the answer is obviously because El-Rufai took
many daring decisions, what political analysts call Second Term decisions in
his First Term, due to his deep convictions. And in taking what were analysts described
as very “unpopular” decisions El- Rufai made the point that deceit should not
be the hallmark of governance, and his refusal to toe the line of other
governors who postponed crucial decisions to their second term for electoral
purposes. Once convinced that the educational sector needed to be
revamped,El-Rufai embarked on the reform of the sector – from rehabilitation of
schools to engagement of competent teachers- which culminated in the
disengagement of over 20,000 unqualified teachers. So why won’t El-Rufai be the
cynosure of attention,especially when many thought he was fool hardy? 


Hear Akinlotan”He(El- Rufai) has a little more than three years to go in
office, and is ambitious to climb even higher, perhaps up to the presidency.
Trust him, therefore, to engage in more histrionics in the years ahead, hug
controversy like a bear, say many brash and provocative things, and engage in
many more risky and outlandish behaviour.” The question is when has it become a
crime for a man to be ambitious, because a man without ambition is like a bird
flying without direction? By the way the point must be made that El- Rufai by
every yardstick is eminently qualified to be the president of Nigeria- not only
because he has no certificate issues,but because he has shown the capacity and
competence to lead – from his days at the Bureau for Public Enterprises(BPE) to
his present assignment as governor of Kaduna State- he has always delivered.
The intention of Akinlotan to “evilize” ambition,to condemn El- Rufai just to
pave way for his master Tinubu is cheap blackmail that will work with
others,but not with El-Rufai. There would have been a problem with El-Rufai’s
ambition were it to be by an unconstitutional means, but since that isn’t the
case, whenever he so wishes he has the right to throw his cap into the ring. 

The problem with the Akinlotans’ of this world is their propensity to judge
people by their own very low standards,which is why Akinlotan would question
every El-Rufai’s judgement,question his motive(his statement that power should
shift) and doubt his democratic credentials. Hear Akinlotan: “When he and his
aides are able to manage it, they must decide whether his behaviour and
statements do not impel them to take in good faith the criticisms of his fervent
opponents as well as lap up the praises of his countless admirers”. The fact
whether Akinlotan likes it or not is that El-Rufai has a better record than
Tinubu their godfather who notoriously had a cantankerous relationship with his
deputy governors and supporters. Akinlotan’s hatred is obvious and it is the
reason why he kept reaching the conclusions he reached. For instance Akinlotan
doesn’t believe that the praises heaped on El-Rufai on his 60th birthday were
genuine, so he goes on to wickedly aver that it was to save themselves from
El-Rufai’s “waspish tongue”. And that El-Rufai sees every attack as an attempt
to deny “him the chance to run for the presidency”, if only Akinlotan knows
that El- Rufai is not inordinately ambitious and were it not for Buhari he
would have been in school full time….he was a reluctant candidate. 

Akinlotan made several false statements,but the most laughable of them all
which also shows the length that Akinlotan would go to hound him, is that
El-Rufai “carefully screened out his critics from his birthday celebrations,
but those who felicitated with him in person or on newspaper advertisement
pages knew it would be impolite to seize that fleeting birthday moment to
excoriate his failings.” The first point of correction is that no deliberate
effort was made to screen out any perceived enemy,because enemies don’t exist
in El-Rufai’s world. Even Adams Oshiomhole the embattled chairman of the All
Progressives Congress(APC), with whom El- Rufai had some minor disagreements
over Adams’ attempt to subvert the will of the people was welcomed with open
arms. Nor was anyone encouraged or forced to say kind words which they know
that El-Rufai who sees things in white and black would never condescend to,in
other to make them feel good. So if Akinlotan is telling us that his master
Tinubu engaged in sycophancy,by paying glowing tributes to El-Rufai which he
didn’t mean, then good luck to him and his ilks. 

There is absolutely no doubt that Akinlotan’s grouse with El- Rufai is the
remote possibility that he might run, probably because Akinlotan knows what
other lesser mortals don’t know. Are the marabouts telling them that El-Rufai
in spite of his lack of interest will be prevailed upon to run? Because only
such assurances by marabouts can explain the persistence with which they have
tried to make it an issue. That El-Rufai is unsuitable for the presidency is a
view shared within the very narrow inconsequential group Tinubu political
family. If El-Rufai does decide to run it’s the party members who would decide
his fate and if he emerges the party flag bearer Nigerians would determine his
unsuitability or otherwise and not Akinlotan- one of the over 6 million voters
registered in Lagos State,who hardly go out to vote. 


There is no denying the fact that Akinlotan’s problem is the fact that the
El-Rufai that he hates so much enjoys tremendous goodwill from all walks of
life,which explains his bile filled outbursts. Hear Akinlotan: “If these
newspaper advertisements ran the gamut of hypocrisy and tendentiousness, words
are inadequate to describe the rhapsodies that lathered the packed hall in
Kaduna where Mallam el-Rufai was serenaded to bursting point”. Akinlotan can’t
live down the fact that the likes of John Oyegun,the former National Chairman
of the APC, the Oni of Ife Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi etc had very kind words
about a man he hates with deep passion. Worse still was the Oni urging him to
“continue to beat the positive drum for Nigeria”, which was like pouring petrol
on Akinlotan’s burning fire. It’s not surprising that Akinlotan had very
negative comments for the Oni and Oyegun who dared root for an El-Rufai
presidency. Not even President Buhari escaped the tongue lashing of Akinlotan
for acknowledging El- Rufai’s “service to Nigeria and mankind which marks him
out as an outstanding public servant” 

Hear Akinlotan:”It is hard to tell whether Mallam el-Rufai is in reality the
person being lauded so magnificently, or whether it is the Mallam el-Rufai of
their imagination, the one they hoped he would become sometime in the future if
he was not already past the age of moderation and amelioration.” It’s obvious
Akinlotan would have preferred that Adams Oshiomhole boycotted the birthday
celebration because of the minor spat with El- Rufai over his attempt to award
Shehu Sani an automatic ticket. It’s to the credit of both men that they have
moved on after their skirmishes. While Akinlotan would in his characteristic
manner want to make enemies for Adams like they keep making for Tinubu,the truth
is that Adams knows his enemies and knows for a fact that had El-Rufai lent
support to those who have been plotting his exist,he would have been history. 

Akinlotan is certainly right that “At 60, Mallam el-Rufai cannot and will not
change. Age has nothing to do with his style, his person, or his politics.” Why
should he change- the question is change to what and to what end? By change is
Akinlotan urging El-Rufai to abandon his principles and convictions? 

Post Script: Akinlotan like William Barr the Attorney General of the United
States fudges the truth.