 The Inspector General of Police, IGP M.A Adamu, mni has set-up a Special Investigation Team to unravel the immediate and remote causes of the unfortunate tragic explosion that occurred at Ogbese near Akure, the Ondo State Capital on Friday, 27th March, 2020, Force Public Relations Officer, DCP Frank Mba said in a statement Monday. According to Mba, the Team which is headed by the
Commissioner of Police in charge of the Explosive Ordinance Disposal Unit,
Force Headquarters, Abuja, CP Maikudi A. Shehu, is made up of police officers
from the Police Bomb Disposal Squad (Explosive Ordinance Disposal Unit). The unit
is a specialized arm of the Police that oversees explosives and ordinance
operations of the Force including controlled detonation, safe evacuation,
sweeping, assessment, analysis, intelligence and investigations touching on
bombs and all forms of explosives related incidents. The Investigation Team, the spokesman added,  will work jointly with experts from the
Nigerian Geological Survey Agency (NGSA) – the nation’s leading Research and
Development Institution that is the sole repository of all geo-scientific data.
The Agency has a state-of-the-art laboratory with the capacity and expertise to
carry out a wide range of geo-scientific examinations including
Laboratory/Forensic Examinations, Geochemical Analysis of Rocks, Minerals,
Water, Sewage, Soil Samples and Site Investigations amongst others. The IGP
hopes that with the involvement of NGSA, the quality and integrity of
investigations into the explosion will be greatly enhanced. The IGP however enjoined the citizens especially
those living around the scene of the incident to avoid the area so as not to
tamper with the scene of incident and the ongoing investigations. Meanwhile, the IGP also sympathized with the government and people of Ondo State particularly victims that sustained injuries or lost their property as a result of the incident. He called for calm and assured  that the outcome of investigations will be made public.