Nigeria has foreseen the economic problems that may come in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, and will explore all alternatives to protect her people, President Muhammadu Buhari has said. According to a press release signed
by the Special Adviser to the President (Media and Publicity) Femi Adesina, the
President spoke Tuesday at State House, Abuja, during a briefing session by the
Presidential Economic Advisory Council (PEAC) led by Professor Doyin Salami. With oil prices oscillating between
29 and 30 dollars in recent times, as opposed to the 57 dollars benchmark for
year 2020 Budget, President Buhari said many variables, including production
cost and political impact, determine oil prices, “and we will see how to
survive fallen prices, as we already envisaged the problem.” He explained that protecting the
people from vagaries of international economic fortunes, and associated fallen
prices of oil, is a priority of government, “and we will do our best to do so.” Stressing the importance of
education and healthcare, the President submitted that if people were
adequately educated, “they won’t accept any form of mismanagement by
leadership, nor would they allow themselves to be manipulated by those
promoting ethnic and religious sentiments.” He promised that inputs in
agriculture, education and healthcare would continue as much as practicable. In his briefing, Professor Salami,
leading a team of PEAC members, painted sobering scenarios of what could happen
to the Nigerian economy, if the Covid-19 pandemic lasted for too long.
 
These include; slower growth, as the supply and demand sides of global economy
would be affected, uncertainty, which would erode confidence, governments
acting unilaterally instead of cooperatively, further drop in oil prices, and
lockdowns gaining grounds around the world. There would also be oil glut, trade
imbalance, drop in foreign reserves,  and rise in unemployment. Noting that many countries round the
world may go into economic recession, the PEAC advocated hard work for Nigeria
to keep its head above the waters. Recommending, among others, a
possible revision of the 2020 Budget, with priority spending on healthcare,
reprioritization of expenditure  on infrastructure to focus on projects
nearing completion with pro-poor effects, curtailing recurrent expenditure,
mobilizing the private sector to strengthen health sector infrastructure, and
boosting of government revenue, the PEAC stressed that the projections may seem
dire, but the worst may be avoided with hard work and scrupulous implementation
of policies.