 The
Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Malam Muhammad Musa Bello has
advised owners of articulated vehicles to always abide by laid down laws
guiding movement into, and within the city.. Malam
Bello gave the advice when a delegation of national executives of the National
Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG) and Petroleum Tanker
Drivers led by NUPENG’s national President, Comrade Prince William Akporeha,
paid a courtesy visit to the FCT Administration. The
Minister stressed that traffic laws specified that articulated vehicles were
restricted from plying roads in the mornings and early evenings adding that the
law was in place to safe guard lives and property He
said: “There are timings as to when articulated vehicles are allowed to move.
And normally, the restrictions are mainly in the morning and early evening
along the major arterial roads of Gwagwalada, Suleja and Mararaba so that
tanker movements will not clash with the heavy vehicular movement in the city
at such hours” Malam
Bello lamented the loss of lives and property that usually follow any tanker
mishap, urging the tanker drivers to work with government to avoid such
incidences by obeying laid down road traffic laws. The
Minister who commended NUPENG for its contributions to the nation’s economy,
especially in the area of job creation, described the Union as an important
stakeholder in the Nigeria project. He
assured his guests that efforts were being intensified to ensure the
establishment of a truck yard in the FCT to serve as a transit park for tankers
and equipped with facilities to ensure that drivers get good rest, freshen up
and be in a better state of mind to journey further without endangering their
lives and that of other road users due to fatigue. The
Minister disclosed that there were plans in the Abuja masterplan for the
construction of a 45km expressway from the outskirt of the city to the city
centre. He said when constructed, the road would among other things, serve as
safe passage for articulated vehicles. He
said: “On the long term basis, benefits of which will be after my tenure, there
is going to be a major expressway .. that will start from Gwagwalada  ..
and come into the city through Apo. Its about 45km .. and its going to be ten
lanes, three carriage way at the centre and two service lanes. It will come to
happen”. Malam
Bello also commended the Union for the role it played during the resurfacing of
the Abuja Airport when it helped with the movement of bitumen used for that
project. Earlier,
NUPENG President had commended the Minister for his efforts towards making
Abuja one of the safest and peaceful cities in the country while expressing the
desire of the Union to be a part of the developmental drive in the FCT. Also
Speaking, the National Chairman, Petroleum Tanker Drivers Branch of NUPENG,
Comrade Otunba Oladiti Akanni Salimon, said development of any city should not
be left to government alone, hence the association’s pledge to collaborate with
the FCTA in order to contribute its quota to the development of the FCT. FCT
road traffic laws restricts the movement of articulated vehicles within the
city from 5 am to 10am in the mornings and from 4pm -9pm in the evenings.