 Socio-Economic
Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has sent “an urgent complaint to the
United Nations Working Group on Arbitrary Detention over the arbitrary
detention and degrading treatment of deposed Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi
(II), [Sanusi Lamido Sanusi].” SERAP
said: “The arrest and continued detention of Emir Sanusi Lamido Sanusi is an
egregious violation of his human rights. The Nigerian and Kano State
authorities have violated the following rights under the Nigerian Constitution,
1999 (as amended) and international law in continuing to detain Emir Sanusi:
the right to be free from arbitrary detention; the right to freedom of
movement; and the right to due process of law.” In
the complaint dated 11 March, 2020 and signed by SERAP deputy director Kolawole
Oluwadare, the organization said: “The detention of
Emir Sanusi constitutes an arbitrary deprivation of his liberty because it does
not have any legal justification. The detention also does not meet minimum
international standards of due process.” SERAP is calling on the Working Group to “initiate a procedure
involving the investigation of Emir Sanusi’s case, and urgently send an
allegation letter to the Nigerian and Kano State authorities inquiring about
the case generally, and specifically about the legal basis for his arrest,
detention, and degrading treatment, each of which is in violation of
international law.” SERAP is also urging the Working Group to “issue an opinion
declaring that Emir Sanusi’s deprivation of liberty and detention is arbitrary
and in violation of Nigeria’s Constitution and obligations under international
law. We also urge the Working Group to call for Emir Sanusi’s immediate
release.” According to SERAP, “We urge the Working Group to request the
Nigerian and Kano State authorities to investigate and hold accountable all
persons responsible for the unlawful arrest, continued detention, and degrading
treatment of Emir Sanusi.” SERAP is also calling on the Working Group “to request the
Nigerian and Kano State authorities to award Emir Sanusi adequate compensation
for the violations he has endured as a result of his unlawful arrest, arbitrary
detention, and degrading treatment.” SERAP also argued that: “A detention is arbitrary when it is
clearly impossible to invoke any legal basis justifying the deprivation of
liberty. Article 9(1) of the International Covenant on Civil and Political
Rights, which confirms the right to liberty and freedom from arbitrary
detention, guarantees that no one shall be deprived of his liberty except on
such grounds and in accordance with such procedure as are established by law.” The
complaint addressed to Mr. José Guevara Bermúdez
Chairman/Rapporteur of the Working Group, read in part: “The Human Rights
Committee has interpreted this right to mean that procedures for carrying out
legally authorized deprivation of liberty should also be established by law and
State parties should ensure compliance with their legally prescribed
procedures.” “Pursuant to the mandate of the Working Group, the “Manual of Operations
of the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council” and the publication
“Working with the UN Human Rights Programme, a Handbook for Civil Society”,
SERAP, a non-governmental human rights organization, can provide information on
a specific human rights case or situation in a particular country, or on a
country’s laws and practices with human rights implications.” “As set forth in this Individual Complaint, the Nigerian and Kano
State authorities are arbitrarily depriving the deposed Emir of Kano, Muhammed
Sanusi II (Sanusi Lamido Sanusi) of his liberty and
continues to arbitrarily detain him. Emir Sanusi is a citizen of Nigeria and
has been detained since 9 March, 2020. He continues to be detained without
access to the outside world.” “SERAP therefore argues that the case adequately satisfies the
requirements by which to submit an individual complaint to the UN Working Group
on Arbitrary Detention.” “SERAP is therefore seeking an opinion from the Working Group
finding Emir Sanusi’s continuing detention to be arbitrary and in violation of
Nigeria’s Constitution and obligations under international law.” “Emir Sanusi Lamido Sanusi was the Emir of Kano, Muhammed Sanusi
II, Kano State of Nigeria until 9 March, 2020 and is a known critic of the
Nigerian and Kano State authorities. He has for many years campaigned for
universal access to quality education for Nigerian children and exposed
political corruption and human rights violations in Nigeria.” “By a letter dated March 9, 2020, and signed by the Secretary to
the Kano State Government, Usman Alhaji, the Emir of Kano, Muhammed Sanusi II
(Sanusi Lamido Sanusi) was informed that he had been summarily deposed from the
throne of Emir of Kano by the Kano State Government. He was accused of “total
disrespect” to the governor of Kano State, Mr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, an
‘offence’, which is unknown to Nigerian and international law.” “Following his dethronement without fair hearing and due process,
he was arrested and reportedly forcibly removed by Nigerian security agents. He
is now being arbitrarily detained in Awe, the headquarters of Awe local
government area of Nasarawa State of Nigeria. He was driven by Nigerian
security agents for nearly seven hours in the night and arrived at about 2am in
Nasarawa State. Emir Sanusi remains in arbitrary detention and without access
to the outside world.” “Accordingly, it is hereby requested that the Working Group
consider this Individual Complaint a formal request for an opinion of the
Working Group pursuant to Resolution 1997/50 of the Commission on Human Rights,
as reiterated by Resolutions 2000/36, 2003/31, and Human Rights Council
Resolutions 6/4, 15/18, 20/16, and 24/7.” “SERAP respectfully requests the Working Group to initiate the
procedure involving the investigation of individual cases toward reaching an
opinion declaring Emir Sanusi’s detention to be arbitrary and in violation of
international law. To this end, SERAP will pursue the regular communications
procedure before the Working Group in order to have
the ability to provide comments on any response by the Nigerian and Kano State
authorities.”