  Last week, I
attended a workshop at Wilton Part in Sussex on the theme of fostering social cohesion in
Nigeria. It was organized by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office. The workshop title
is framed rather diplomatically as the focus of discussions was the Bishop of Truro’s 2019 independent review into the UK
Foreign and Commonwealth Office’s work to support persecuted Christians in
Nigeria and globally. The assumption is that Nigeria’s multiple and complex
security challenges including Islamist violence in the North East, worsening
violent criminality and insecurity in the North West and ethno-religious
violence, and farmer-herder conflict across large parts of central Nigeria are
all directed at targeting Christians for persecution. For a country with a highly
religiously observant population that is roughly divided between the two main
established religions of Islam and Christianity, you cannot have a theme as
weighty as this. The report says
there is widespread evidence showing that today, Christians constitute by far
the most widely persecuted religion. They cite the Pew Research Center report
that in 2016 Christians were targeted in 144 countries, a rise from 125 in
2015. It affirms that the most serious threat to Christian communities came
from the militant Islamist group Boko Haram in Nigeria, where direct targeting
of Christian believers on a comprehensive scale set out to “eliminate
Christianity and pave the way for the total Islamisation of the country”. They
cite an investigation showed that in 2018 far more Christians in Nigeria were
killed in violence in which religious faith was a critical factor than anywhere
else in the world; Nigeria accounted for 3,731 of the 4,136 fatalities: 90
percent of the total. The other area of
focus of the report is what they call the new and growing threat to mainly
Christian farming communities had emerged from nomadic Fulani herdsmen. The
Fulani, says the report, carry out attacks against Christian communities
especially in Nigeria’s ‘Middle Belt’, the border territory between the
Hausa-speaking Muslim areas in northern Nigeria and land further south mainly
populated by Christians. Reports also showed mostly retaliatory attacks against
Fulani by “predominantly” Christian farmers, such as the November 2016 killing
of about 50 mainly Fulani pastoralists by ethnic Bachama local residents in
Numan district, Adamawa state. The causes of this inter-communal conflict are
complex and “attributed to many factors”. That said whilst the conflict cannot
simply be seen in terms of religion, it is equally simplistic not to see the
religious dimension as a significantly exacerbating factor, and the Fulani
attacks have repeatedly demonstrated a clear intent to target Christians, and
potent symbols of Christian identity. The general view of the workshop participants, in my understanding, was
that the Bishop of Truro, by his terms of reference, worked from the answer to
the question and therefore found what he was asked to look for. Many
participants pointed out there is indeed evidence of targeting of Christians in
Nigeria’s growing culture of violence but also evidence of the targeting of
Muslims by the same forces. It is therefore important to have some comparative
perspective and balance in assessing the situation. In addition, the multiple
conflicts and rapid growth of criminal gangs targeting all sectors of society
and community should guide us into developing a more complex evaluation of what
is going on. One of the participants who I referred to in my column last week and who
is the Special Adviser on Agriculture, Dr. Andrew
Kwasari took up the issue of Fulani herdsmen targeting Christians in the Middle
Belt. He drew attention to the work done by the National Committee on the
crisis composed of governors and ministers that have found out that
essentially, it is a crisis generated by climate change, population growth, expansion
of farming and transhumance agriculture based on competition in access to land,
pasture and water with feasible solutions. The problem, he argued is that too
many politicians and religious conflict entrepreneurs have a stake in deepening
the conflict and making solutions difficult to implement. He argued that the
ten-year National Livestock Transformation Plan is workable and the surest path
to peace and development and should be allowed to work. The workshop was attended by major faith leaders in the country, inter-faith
advocacy groups, academics and human rights campaigners. There was a lot of
discussion on expanding the domain of inter-faith dialogue between Muslim and
Christian groups to address the continuous flow of inter-faith conflicts and
misunderstanding that emerge on a daily basis. Each religious group was also
encouraged to counter conflict entrepreneurs from within that are more
interested in generating and exacerbating rather than ending the conflicts. Some
of the faith leaders complained bitterly that politician and governments will
cause conflict and then call on religious leaders to pray and resolve the
conflicts. We must work together if we are to build peace. One issue that called for a lot of attention was the growing sense of
injustice in the country, from virtually all quarters. When people believe that
are victims of injustice, it’s difficult for them to embrace peace. There can
be little progress in peace building unless State actors take up the issue of
addressing concerns on the massive injustice in the country. The objective must
be for all stakeholders to continue to discuss the challenges
of inter-communal violence in Nigeria and examine how collectively government,
civil society, faith-based and community organisations and others can work
together to build solutions. We need to be more honest in considering the
underlying resource competition driving conflict and insecurity in the country.
Nigeria is in a dangerous phase in its development where each community now
believes the State is not ready to address its problems and that it has to
procure arms to engage in self-help. We need to go back to basics such as
considering alternative dispute settlement mechanisms to address impunity for
those responsible and demands for justice is met for all, including members of
religious groups. In this regard, participants were urged to highlight and
promote examples in which inter-faith
initiatives to promote peace and foster social cohesion have worked are working
with the objective of replicating them. The Bishop
of Truro’s report advocated for religious protection, promoting inclusive
high-quality education for all and addressing social-economic issues. Clearly,
the massive growth of poverty in Nigeria over the past decade makes peace
building a very difficult enterprise. The youth bulge and unemployment for both
the educated and uneducated young person’s makes interlocutors for peace
scarce. These are all elements about building a more inclusive State and
society that we have to take on board. The challenge here is the dominance of a
self-serving political class whose only objective appears to be the primitive
accumulation of capital and self-aggrandisement. The
workshop was conducted under Chattam House Rules so individuals opinions cannot
be quoted. Cardinal John Onaiyekan however gave me permission to refer to his
major recommendation to the meeting. He said that all of us Nigerians feel that
the cost of staying together as a Nation is extremely high and too many of us want
to opt out of the State. He warned however that the cost of our being torn
apart would be much higher and we should reflect seriously on what we pray for.
I endorse the wise words of the cardinal.