 …as World Consumer Rights Day holds With consumers’ interest and how they
could get better quality of services as its focal point, Executive Vice
Chairman (EVC) of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof. Umar
Garba Danbatta, has said the Commission will abide by all the tenets of
consumer rights in its day-to-day activities. The EVC’s statement underpins activities
of the regulatory agency, which has manifest oversight functions over the
various network operators in Nigeria, as Nigeria joins the rest of the global
community to mark the World Consumer’s Right Day (WCRD) on March 15, 2020. The EVC said the NCC had put in place a
series of initiatives to always address the concerns of and protect the
interest of the consumers in line with the theme of this year’s WCRD: ‘The
Sustainable Consumer.’ For instance, the Commission has, over
the years, hosted the flagship Telecom Consumer Parliament (TCP), where
consumer issues are discussed extensively in a high- profile session where the
regulator, operators, and consumers interact and answers got in the process.
Eighty-eight of such parliaments have been held so far in the major cities
across Nigeria. Besides,
no fewer than 110 Consumer Outreach Programmes (COPs) have been held. The event
holds monthly in urban centres in the country. Also, Consumer Town Hall
Meetings (CTM), which exclusively holds in rural communities, has been well
received across the land. So far, 53 of such events have taken place. There have also been Elite
Enlightenment Campaigns targeted at professional organisations during their
yearly conferences. This is done to carry along the high- profile
professionals, who may not have enough time to participate in the TCP, COP, and
CTMs which hold regularly. There are campaigns too to empower the
Nigerian youth through information and awareness creation regarding their
rights and obligations within the Nigerian telecom industry as well as
apprising them about the consumer protection initiatives of the Commission. “We
participate in trade fairs where we engage the consumer on a one-on-one basis,”
the EVC said. According to the EVC, the Commission
has developed and produced consumer education materials on major telecom issues
for distribution. The developed factsheets are translated into the three major
languages (Igbo, Hausa, and Yoruba) including Pidgin. Such materials cover the
Do-Not-Disturb (DND) 2442 campaign, Subscriber Identification Module (SIM)
Registration and Replacement, role of NCC in consumer protection, among others. The Commission has also put in place
different channels for lodging consumer complaints. These include: ·       
The NCC 622 Toll-Free
Number for escalating unresolved complaints to NCC contact centre and for
seeking redress is working. The centre opens from 8 a.m. – 8 p.m. every day
except on Sunday and national public holidays. There has been consistent
campaign on the 622 NCC Toll-Free Line. ·       
Consumer Portal – The
portal is an alternative online channel for lodging complaints and making
enquiries. The portal is available 24 hours and can be accessed via: www.ncc.gov.ng/consumer ·       
Management of twitter
account (@consumersncc) for disseminating information to consumers. The twitter
account is updated with current topical issues of interest to consumers and it
currently has 10,700 followers (consumers). ·       
Consistent campaign
has attracted 22,487,849 subscribers on DND services as of December 2019. ·       
Regular monitoring of
service providers’ helplines to ensure that the threshold set by the Commission
is met i.e. the number of rings before connecting to Interactive Voice Response
(IVR), the connection of calls to live agents, percentage of failed attempts to
customer care helplines, etc. ·       
Review of the
Complaint Categories and Service Level Agreements (CC/SLAs) on the complaint
management in view of recent technological advancements. ·       
Coordination of
Consumer Protection Special Intervention Initiatives such as: a.      Strategic Bi-Annual
Meeting with Senior Executive Directors of Telcos on Complaint Management. b.     Constitution of a Multi-Sectorial
Working Group on E-Fraud. c.      Development of a
Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with relevant stakeholders on E-Fraud. ·       
Periodic visits to
Service Providers’ call centres to monitor real-time handling of consumer complaints
on the quality of service (QoS) and assurance, among others.