By Akintokunbo A Adejumo akinadejum@aol.com For a society to develop (in
all aspects and areas of human endeavour – technology, agriculture, governance,
industrial, infrastructure, communication, transportation, sports, youth
development, labour and employment, human and natural resources utilisation,
etc.), there must be elements of complete sincerity, altruism, commitment,
willingness and will-power, cooperation, diversification, tolerance, unalloyed
patriotism and love for each of the component peoples  and for the country. There must be an absolute
ostracism of corruption in the society, or being humans, must be kept to the
absolute minimum and not tolerated. It is very simple, yet very
complex, especially in a multi-ethnic, multicultural and multi-religious
society such as Nigeria. But when we observe and fully absorb what has
happened, and is happening in most developed countries, East or West, that we
like to crave, and emulate from Nigeria, all these traits above are there to
see. The developed countries of
the world today did not achieve development, peace and progress in a day, or
even in a century. Their commitment, perseverance, sincerity of purpose, focus
have been painstaking, some covered with blood and gore, iniquity, denial,
self-awareness, admission of guilt and retrospection of their past history. They have recognised,
agonised, and admitted their mistakes or bad deeds; made amends and adjustments
and moved on to concentrate of not only nation building, but making life easy
for their citizens, and indeed foreigners living amongst them. We are still sitting down in
Africa passing blame on and damning Britain, France, etc for taking slaves and
then colonising us and then abandoning us with their religion and brand of
governance; then heaping abuses on the Americans for neo-colonialism and
corrupting our leaders and now the Chinese for attempting to take over our
lands and lives for their own benefit. Every society, throughout the
millennia of history have had to do something to survive, and to develop. And
this includes even Africans to a very large extent, though confined within our
continent. We have also fought internecine wars of attrition and conquered each
other, taking slaves, slaughtering whole villages or communities and taking
over each other’s lands and wives and children as slaves, to be sold to
themselves and later to Arabs raiders and European slave traders. When you have government
officials looting the treasury every day, any kind of development is stunted
and prohibited. It is just plain impossible to develop, as resources needed for
progress are frittered away, profligacy and mismanagement are the order of the
day and corruption have taken over the everyday areas of endeavour and lives of
the people, from leaders to followers. Appointment of mediocre into
public and government positions, just to satisfy nepotist, tribal, religious
and political favours has already condemned development of any kind to the
backwaters. Election of people of doubtful integrity into political positions
means selfishness and corruption in governance. It is all there for us to see,
it is not rocket science. In Nigeria, the endemic and
flagrant corruption, conscious and barefaced nepotism, deliberate sabotage of
everything, gross ineptitude in governance, insincerity of purpose and lack of
vision in legislation, corrupt and slow justice, will always preclude any form
of human and national development. It just won’t work. We can’t eat our cake
and have it. I’ve been writing and
pleading to Nigerians that “religion or ethnicity” are not, should not,
be our problems, but Corruption, stemmed from our Oil and our greedy
politicians and leaders. Let there be Oodua, Biafra or Arewa countries, and the
corruption will be even more massive. I don’t even think all these calls for
Restructuring, blah blah blah will solve our problems. We need a proper
reorientation, and in a way, the minority tribes hold the aces. Since 1999 (and I must admit
even since 1966) Nigerians have seen, experienced and have become inured to
massive corruption, profligacy, ineptitude and outright brainless disregard for
good governance. Nothing seems to have changed in the current dispensation. The
mind-boggling looting and wasting of the country’s abundant resources are still
going on unabated, and with even more brazenness. What is abnormal has become a
normal way of life for us, so much that we cannot distinguish between good and
evil, or between abnormality and normality. We are in a spiral of depravation
and dishonesty in our everyday lives. The people make up the
Government; they cannot be separated. In any country passionate on development,
they do not elect or appoint charlatans and jokers and criminals into public
positions. We always make the mistake,
to our eternal suffering, of separating the government from the people. Who
makes up the government? The people. But once we elect or appoint people into
government, we leave them on their own, and believe they should do everything;
we don’t monitor them, we don’t make them accountable. As such, they do
anything they like. They loot the treasury, they become lazy, they become
oppressive and arrogant, they start acting like mini-gods. And then we, the
people outside government, start moaning and complaining, when it is too late
to call our errant representatives to order. When we say Nigerians are
lazy, do not separate adults from youths (in fact, the adults are worse than
the youths) or government from people. There are millions of hard-working
Nigerians, in the country and all over the world – we know, that is a fact. But
unfortunately, it is the few lazy ones, mostly based in Nigeria, who dominate
government and rule us. And it these indolent cliques who make the most noise
(and crimes) that we see every day, and the world see every day. How can a
Senator who works less than 60 days a year be earning N40 million a month while
a teacher in a secondary school, works 9 months in a year, earns less than
N40,000 a month? Isn’t that lethargy for the Senator and his ilk? “The problem of Nigeria
is not Corruption. The problem of Nigeria is Unpunished Corruption” — The Guardian (NIGERIA) “No system should be 100%
democratic or autocratic. A good system is a blend of both. A good leader knows
when to shift from one to the other.” – Unknown Author “To fight corruption in a
Corrupt system, you don’t follow Due Process; you follow the Necessary
Process.”  – Vladimir Putin, President of the Russian
Federation. I am of the opinion that
corruption in Nigeria started from the top (those in government) and trickled
down to the people. I have often heard stories of how honest Nigerians were in
the past, how newspaper vendors would leave their stalls unattended and people
would still drop the money for every newspaper that they picked up, how
dishonesty by a person in a community brought shame and disgrace on the
person’s entire family. Somewhere along the course of
our history, bribery (which was often done secretly) became a norm. I remember
vividly who the head of state at the time was. I also noticed how morals as a
people took a nosedive. It all started from the top. However, I do agree that the
solution can start from the bottom and we push it up to the top. I admit that
we all have an individual role to play. But to be frank, cleaning up
our country would be much faster if it started from the top. Corruption represents a
threat for democracy, for law supremacy, social equality and justice by
undermining the market economy and endangering the stability in public
institutions. Where does salvation lies for
Nigeria? DO WE HAVE ANY HOPE OF, OR,
FOR A NATION AND COUNTRY?