 Lagos State Government, on Tuesday,
took more restrictive measures to break the cycle of transmission of
Coronavirus (COVID-19) in the State. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu directed all
markets and stores trading in non-essential commodities to close for seven
days. The directive takes effect from Thursday,
March 26. Also, the Governor reduced the number
of people that must participate in a public gathering at any given time from 50
to 25. Sanwo-Olu disclosed that he had
instructed the Chief Judge of the State, Justice Kazeem Alogba, to close all
High and Magistrate courts across the State from Thursday to support the
efforts being made to stop the epidemic. Other public places shut by the
Government include parks, playgrounds and recreational centres within the
State, regardless of ownership. In a televised briefing after State’s
Security Council meeting held at the State House in Marina, Sawno-Olu said the
restrictive measures were necessary, given the rise in the number of confirmed
COVID-19 cases in Lagos. He said the directive should not be seen a lockdown on
business activities in the State. The directives, the Governor said, did
not affect pharmacy shops and all markets where food stuffs are traded.
Eateries and restaurants must not accept eat-in customers; they are to serve
food in take-away packages, the Governor said. Sanwo-Olu said the Government would be
opening markets in schools across the State where food items could be purchased
in the restrictive period to prevent panic buying. He said the guidelines would
be reviewed after it lapses for next line of action. The Governor said the State had been
proactive and prompt in tracking, isolating and managing the suspected cases,
adding that the conditions of all confirmed cases were stable at the Infectious
Diseases Hospital (IDH) in Yaba. He said: “Today, we are taking further
measures and giving new directives and guidelines to stop the spread of
coronavirus in our State. All open markets and stores are directed to close for
seven days, except for sellers of food and medicines, medical equipment and
other essential life-saving products. For those that fall into the
aforementioned categories, it is imperative that they observe necessary
precautionary measures of social distancing. “The Chief Judge of Lagos has been
directed to ensure that all Magistrate and High Courts in the State close
immediately to the public and suspend all court sittings. As may be possible,
all essential services should be transacted electronically. “Also, all public parks, including
those in private and residential estates, swimming pools, gyms, beauty salons,
and all such public places are expected to shut down at this time, until
further notice.” The Governor urged inter-state
commuters, either by air or road, to refrain from travel this period. This, he
said, falls within the Federal Government’s guidelines. “As much as possible, let us all
refrain from inter-state travelling of any kind, until the worst of the crisis
is behind us,” he said. Sanwo-Olu advised the organised private
sector to take drastic steps as done by the Government of the public sector and
allow non-essential workers to work from home. Banks and other financial institutions,
Sanwo-Olu advised, must prioritise online channels for their services to the
public, saying only essential and key senior staff should be allowed to work in
the office during restriction period. The Governor said anyone caught
flouting the new directives, as well as the previous guidelines, would face the
full wrath of the law. He said: “Law enforcement agencies and
other relevant Lagos State protection agencies have been given clear orders to
deal with recalcitrant offenders. We will not relent in ensuring strict
compliance with our directives.