 The Economic and Financial Crimes
Commission,  EFCC, has written a litigation threat to the PUNCH
(Nig)  Limited (Publishers of PUNCH  Newspapers), asking it to
retract an allegedly  libelous
publication against the Acting Chairman of the commission, Mr Ibrahim
Magu.  The EFCC is also demanding  an unreserved apology from The
PUNCH over what it describes as defamatory  publication against
Magu. In a letter addressed to the
Managing Editor/ Editor- In- Chief of the paper, Mr. Ademola Osinubi,  and
signed by its  Secretary,  Mr.  Ola Olukoyede,  the EFCC
described as libellous, vexatious,  defamatory and damaging,  a piece
written by Abimbola Adelakun on Magu on March 5, 2020 and entitled: “The
Real Trouble With Magu”. The letter was dated March 6, 2020
while it was received by The PUNCH on March 17, 2020. According to Olukoyede,  Magu,
as a substantive Commissioner of Police and internationally recognized Anti-
corruption czar” and who ” has discharged his responsibilities with
absolute dedication and resourcefulness” does not deserve ” reckless
use of libellous and defamatory words by Abimbola Adelakun”. The Secretary to the Commission is
therefore demanding  ” a retraction of the libellous words and
tendering of unreserved apology in a conspicuous place in your newspaper within
seven days”. Olukoyede further listed several
libellous words contained in Adelakun’s piece and warned that the EFCC would
not hesitate to commence litigation against The PUNCH,  if the two demands
of retraction and apology are not met within the stipulated time. Adelakun,  a columnist with The
PUNCH,  in the offensive piece,   raised several parochial
issues against Magu.  The piece,  which reeked of malice, 
bitterness and direct attacks on the EFCC Chairman sought to portray him as
incompetent,  unprofessional and undeserving of his
appointment. But in a swift reaction, the Special
Adviser to the EFCC Chairman on Media & Publicity,  Mr Tony Amokeodo,
took up issues with her and knocked the bottom off her
insinuations. In a Right of Reply  widely
carried by several newspapers,  including The PUNCH ,  Amokeodo
stressed that,  “It may be appropriate to ask:   What does Abimbola
Adelakun know about financial and economic crimes in the first instance? 
What does she know about investigation of such crimes?  How equipped is
she to know whether Mr. Magu got his job on merit or not?  What empirical
facts are available to her to evaluate the performance of the EFCC’s boss on
his job? Is Abimbola Adelakun more adequately informed about law enforcement
and anti- corruption fight than the Federal Bureau of Investigations, 
FBI,  Metropolitan Police,  Scotland Yard,  International Police
and other global agencies that have always scored the EFCC under Magu’s watch
highly?  Does the ability to string sentences together in the name of
column writing enough competence for her to primitively  adjudge a crack
detective like Mr. Magu unfit for his job? Olukoyede further disclosed that The
PUNCH and Adelakun will have to prove in court, the justification for the
libelous and defamatory words against the EFCC boss. The letter reads in part, “ 
For the avoidance of doubt, Adelakun’s usage of defamatory and libelous words
have damaged the integrity of Mr Magu in the eyes of Nigerians and outside
world. “Magu has no plans—from now to the
unforeseeable future—to sharpen himself. And there is the real trouble with
him: he did not get his job on merit, he knows his assessment for his continued
fit for that office is not based on superior achievements and, therefore, he
has no motivation whatsoever to improve his intellect.” “There are gazillion books on
corruption out there for him to read and understand what corruption is, not
only within the local Nigerian milieu but also as a global phenomenon. Nothing
about Magu’s rant demonstrates that he has ever cared to develop an abstract
understanding of corruption.” “We therefore demand a retraction of
the libelous words and tendering of unreserved apology in conspicuous place in
your newspaper within seven days. “Please note that the Commission
will not hesitate to commence litigation without recourse to you if our demands
are not met within the stipulated time.