 Permit to point out what I regard as a fundamental failure
of leadership in government which is most critically prevalent at state and
federal levels for decades. When environmental issues took the centre stage
across the world it was decided to prioritise Environmental Impact Assessment
in approval considerations for various major government and private projects. Over the years it has become obvious that governments pay
little or no attention to the more important issue of Human Impact Assessment
on which I have editorialized in the past. In Kaduna we can see this failure in
the ongoing urban upgrade projects which put the focus on infrastructure at the
expense of survival of people impacted adversely by the projects. Now in the efforts to check the spread of the corona virus
we are seeing drastic lockdown, stay at home regulations which practically deny
the majority of people a means of daily livelihood on which they depend but
make no reference or effort to acknowledge and redress this. Yet the leaders luxuriate on the “mandate” of the
people with impunity. The commoners even celebrate the fact that corona has
equalised the health inequities by foreclosing foreign medical treatment and
forcing the top shots to survive or perish in makeshift isolation sites sharing
the appalling lack of basic facilities with our notorious “consulting
clinics”. Can government not even consider commissioning bakeries to
produce and distribute bread in the ghettos? Can governors not show concern by
giving their locked down citizens the IDP humanitarian reliefs? When we clear
our cities of the struggling roadside traders can they not be absorbed into the
labour force of the   contractors or otherwise deployed to earn
something to subsidize the suffering? 

When government callously scoops pension funds to beef up its budget is it
unaware of hundreds of unpaid pensioners waiting  in vain for
verification?  How does it feel to consciously prevent people from seeking
daily bread and caring less about their survival? Death by starvation cannot be a humane substitute for death
by corona virus unless it is part of the evil scheme to rid the world of the
poor so that the rich can thrive! God dey na poor man prayer. Leaders need to put humanity above authority or they will
continue to pay the price that the Ultimate Authority imposes to equalize
inequities created by heartless leaders. Human Impact Assessment is
non-negotiable.