 As the
corona virus pandemic ravages the world, I applaud the various Nigerian state
governments who have proactively taken measures, such as issuing stay at home
orders, and shutting down non-essential markets and other places of mass
gatherings, while also giving guidelines for social distancing. However, we
must accept the fact that much of the Nigerian public have a subsistence
existence. A large percentage of our people do not have the financial capacity
to withstand long periods of self isolation and even lockdown. It is,
therefore, incumbent on the Federal and state governments to provide
palliatives to the Nigerian people to enable them survive, even as they abide
by these necessary measures put in place for their own safety. At an
approximate 30 million households or thereabouts, government should devise
modalities to distribute N10,000 as supplement for food stuff to each
household, among  other palliative measures, with no one left behind. It is thus
time for the National Assembly to reconvene in an emergency session, perhaps by
teleconference (in line with the demands of social distancing), to legislate a
Stimulus Package Act that will cater for all Nigerian citizens. I also call
on all Mobile Telephony Companies in Nigeria to urgently develop mobile money
platforms so that government can reach the unbanked with financial assistance.
I also urge these telecommunications firms to offer each of the 100 million
mobile phone lines in Nigeria free credit of at least ₦1500 per mobile line, so
that Nigerians who show symptoms, or those who just want information, can call
the nearest available health facility, or even an ambulance service, as the
case may be. I
commend all all individuals and corporate organisations who have one way or the
other provided some form of relief for the Nigerian people. This is what makes
Nigeria great, when we help each other at such crisis times as this,
irrespective of any differences. I further call on more more corporations and
individuals with capacity, to assist the public in these trying times. To this
end, Priam Group pledges N50 million on my behalf as my humble contribution to
a relief Fund that will form part of the stimulus package. May God bless Nigeria. Atiku
Abubakar Vice
President of Nigeria, 1999-2007