President Muhammadu Buhari
joins Nigerian Body of Benchers and Nigerian Bar Association in celebrating
former Justice of the Supreme Court and High Commissioner to the United
Kingdom, Justice George Adesola Oguntade, on his 80th birthday, March 10, 2020. In a tribute to Justice
Oguntade,  also a former Chancellor, University of Lagos, President Buhari
said  the High Commissioner earned his respect while serving at the
Supreme Court, before his retirement in 2010, by the way he conducted himself
with “virtue, honesty and conviction  to do the right thing.’’ Special
Adviser to the President (Media
& Publicity), Mr. Femi Adesina, in 
statement Monday, quoted  the
president saying in
his letter to the legal luminary: “What a sterling character! A man with the courage
of his convictions, a jurist of the Puritan kind, and a great patriot. Justice
Oguntade, Nigeria’s High Commissioner to the United Kingdom, is a man who made
a name and a reputation in his chosen career of legal practice. No wonder, he
rose to the very peak, retiring as Justice of the Supreme Court. “To be an outstanding
jurist, you must be ready to be different, even if it means standing alone. I
will never forget my legal challenge of the presidential election of 2007. It
was such a disorderly, chaotic and badly manipulated poll, that the man
declared winner, Umaru Musa Yar’Adua, himself admitted the process was highly
flawed. “However, the Supreme
Court, in its judgement, upheld the election, except for a minority position
maintained by three justices, led by Justice Oguntade. He nullified the poll
for not complying with the Electoral Act. It was a split of four against three.
You don’t have too many like this great jurist anymore. “He was not afraid to
stand alone, when it came to upholding the truth. For that display of virtue,
honesty and conviction to do the right thing, Justice Oguntade earned my
respect. And as he turns 80, I wish him a grand celebration. “To Justice Oguntade, I
say good health, longer life and service to our country.  Happy birthday,
and may the Oguntade clan continue to increase.’’