 Borno Governor, Professor Babagana
Umara Zulum, has applauded the Nigerian military’s ground and air components
for what he described as “decisive blow against Boko Haram” in the
early hours of Wednesday, even when the insurgents ambushed from different
directions in attempt to overrun Damboa town in southern part of the
state. Zulum said in a statement, he
personally signed on Thursday, ‎that he was particularly impressed that a combined
team of soldiers of the army fighting on the ground and air, using fighter jets
with the complementary efforts of the civilian JTF and vigilantes, not only
killed scores of insurgents to prevent them from gaining grounds, but gallantly
took  the war to the insurgents even
after they had fled. “‎I find it compelling to
salute our gallant soldiers of the Nigerian Army and Air Force, under operation
Lafiya Dole for a decisive blow against Boko Haram insurgents on Wednesday
morning in Damboa town. At about 6am yesterday, squads of the insurgents
cleverly attacked Damboa from different directions, believing their ambush was
going to succeed in overunning the town. Unfortunately for the insurgents, they
met a far more determined and battle ready military. Soldiers of the army
fought from the ground, the Air force quickly deployed fighter jets while
volunteers in the Civilian JTF and Vigilantes complemented them. He added, “At first stage, destroyed
13 fighting vehicles after killing scores of insurgents, who drove on them.
What I find even more impressive, was that after the insurgents retreated due
to defeat, the military did not stay back, they remobilized and took the war to
the fleeing insurgents and in the process, killed more insurgents and destroyed
six more fighting vehicles, bringing to 19, the number of vehicles destroyed.
The insurgents were deprived of and we know what one vehicle used for fighting
means to the Boko Haram, talk more of 19. “I salute our ground and air forces.
I salute our volunteers who supported the military. I salute two volunteers,
one each of the Civilian JTF and Vigilantes who paid the supreme price in
trying to defend Borno and Nigeria. I commiserate with families of two women
who died from stray bullets and wish those who sustained injuries a speedy
recovery. I assure the people of Borno State that so much is being put in place
in combined and very resolute effort, to bring an end to the Boko Haram
insurgency. “By the power of God, the insurgency
will eventually end and we shall regain our enduring peace and prosperity”
Zulum said in the statement.