 A Nigerian based Non Governmental
Organization ( NGO), Al Hubb Relief Foundation, based in Kaduna, is set to
support and encourage Nigerian women, especially busy or working women, in the
aspect of their religious and secular activities. This short interview with its
Chairperson, Mrs Amina Mumuni – Ahmed sheds light on what the initiative is
about Can You Tell Us Briefly About Your
Foundation And Your Initiative? – Al Hubb Relief Foundation is a
non-governmental organization and all inclusive foundation whose goal is to
give hope to the disadvantaged and we try to do this through monthly relief
grocery pack distribution to selected deserving individuals, poverty
alleviation schemes, empowerment programs, mental health support, donations
into ongoing verified public distress calls and Da`wah; under which this
particular initiative falls and we are able to do this by the grace of Allah,
through the support of donors who we dub shareholders in reward. We have
different sadaqah schemes to suit anyone and everyone like our 1000 naira per
month donation, our support a family with 5000 naira per month donation [relief
grocery packs] our educate and nurture an orphan with 20,000 per month and many
others, as well as one off donations. The new initiative we are set to
launch which we have dubbed ‘Muslim(ah) and Productivity’, is a religious
growth support group for females where sisters will be reminded of and
introduced to rewarding acts, will have daily accountability windows, be
supported through difficulties and challenges in their Muslimah lives and be
motivated to be the best version of themselves all round. This will be done through a support
group model in a growth supporting and non judgmental environment in the form
of tasking, accountability and encouragement, to revive old forgotten good
deeds and inculcate new ones as their schedule may allow. The foundation of the society is the
woman. She mans the home front, caring for herself and her family, pursuing her
dreams and career and also, having to find time for her Lord. The need to
balance every part of her life drives the woman to constant exertion and
sometimes, exhaustion. The initiative is set to kick off
towards Shaban 1, that is 22nd of March 2020 to get in the grove for a soulful
and amazing Ramadan in sha Allah!. Screening and selection has started and it
requires no financial commitment. It is free. Do You Have Any Similar Initiative
For Men? – Right now, we only have one
catering for busy Muslimahs ( Muslim women) but it is in our plans to put
together one for the brothers too in the future in sha Allah but they can share
in the reward of this one by sharing information about it with deserving
females around them. Are There Conditions For Selection? – Not really… interested individuals
will only answer a few straight forward questions before they are included. How Can You Be Reached For One To
Benefit Or For Sponsorship Of Your Other Projects? – We can be reached through texts
and calls to  08144374385 , 07089496915 (WhatsApp)