 By
Chimezie Godfrey The Minister, Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajia Sadiya Umar Farouq, has said that the Federal Government will not relent in providing humanitarian aids to the indigenes of  Nasarawa State. The
Minister  stated this on Thursday in Abuja during her interaction with the
Nasarawa state Governor, Abdullahi A. Sule who paid her a courtesy visit in her
office. ”I
will like to acknowledge the programmes the Ministry held in Nasarawa State. We
have the Conditional Cash Transfer, (CCT), targeted at poor households which
has 48, 637 beneficiaries, N-POWER  targeted at the unemployed graduates
which has 12, 000 beneficiaries, Government Economic Enterprise Programme,
(GEEP),which are in three components, trader moni, farmer’s moni and Nasarawa
State has 36, 000 beneficiaries. ”We
have the focus on School Feeding Programme and this is a laudable programme
which ensures that children go to school, empower local women and local
producers. The entire benefits of these programmes are enormous and Nasarawa
State has 170, 630 children who have benefited from the programme,” She said. Farouq
pointed out that Nassarawa State has a large number of Internally Displaced
persons, (IDPs) as a result of communal clashes adding that there is need to
empower and resettle the affected persons. She
stressed the need to partner with the State Government to control flooding in
the state noting that the Federal Government will engage the state SEMAs to
ensure that these disasters are put under control. In
his speech, the Governor of Nassarawa State Engr. Abdullahi. A.Sule, said that
the state hosts 80,000 children engaged in street begging, which has the
majority from neighbouring states, and that the state would seek the
intervention of the Ministry to cater for these children in areas such as
feeding, clothing and education. He
further said that the Minister can use Nasarawa State as a template for
addressing the humanitarian needs of these category of children in other part
of the country.