 The Minister of
Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, has appointed a Task Team of
industry experts to design a framework on Audience Measurement System to ensure
that content producers and advertisers receive their dues for content and media
placement. The Minister announced
the Task Team at a meeting with members of the Association of Advertising
Agencies of Nigeria (AAAN) in Lagos on Thursday. He said it is imperative
to urgently put in place an Industry Framework that will ensure that content
producers receive their just due for the value of the content they create, as
well as provide objective guarantees to the Advertising community on their Return-On-Investment
on media placements. ”This will then have the
overall effect of guaranteeing greater spend by the Advertisers, who are all
seeking to grow their market share,” Alhaji Mohammed said. He said the nation needs
an objective and scientific Audience Measurement System that articulates the
value of the content to consumers as well as the value of the Audience to
Advertisers, particularly in the television sector but also in the Outdoor
Segment. The Minister said due to
lack of authentic and real data, the Nigerian media advertising total industry
volume has historically performed below the global average benchmark relative
to the country’s GDP, when compared with leading global and African markets
despite Nigeria’s position as a leading African economy. He said in 2018,
Nigeria’s total advertising revenue performed very poorly (0.12%), when
compared with South Africa (0.83%), Kenya (0.35%), Ghana (0.29%) and even
Tanzania (0.18%), adding that the lackluster performance of the advertising industry
is attributable directly to a lack of Measurement and Currency of trading, a
most basic requirement in all developed markets for the success of the
Production industry. “The current value of the
Nigeria television advertising market is estimated at $200 million, despite a
population of about 200 million, which translates to $1 per person. In Ghana,
its $3 per person, in South Africa, its $18 per person and in Kenya $7 per
person. If Nigeria only reaches Ghana’s level of spend, this would triple the
size of the TV advertising market to $600 million per annum, which is an extra
$400 million par annum. And 90% or more of this increase would go directly to
the businesses and the talents creating the content,” Alhaji Mohammed said. The Minister, who lamented
that the value of Nigeria’s Broadcasting Advertising Market is not
proportionate to the country’s population, when compared to the top 3 markets
in the Sub-Saharan Africa region, said despite having a population more than
three times that of South Africa, Nigeria’s Television Advertising Revenue in
2016, US$309 million, was 76% behind that of South Africa (US$1,301 million) “By the end of 2020, the
gap between South Africa and Nigeria is projected to marginally decline to 72%.
Similarly, in the radio sector, the value of Nigeria’s 2016 advertising revenue
of US$81 million was 75% behind its peers, South Africa and Kenya, both at
US$343 million. “In both countries, the
value and growth rate of the Broadcasting Advertising Revenue is
largely influenced by the availability of a scientific Audience Measurement
System that provides confidence to Advertisers in measuring their
Return-On-Investment,” he said. Alhaji Mohammed therefore
charged the Task Team to identify best practice Audience Measurement System
that will support the sustainable growth of the Nigeria Creative and
Entertainment Industry; recommend a Framework for supporting the sustainability
of the Audience Measurement System, independent of the Federal Government; and
to also recommend a Payment and Disbursement Framework among the key
stakeholders in the industry, that is; Broadcasting
Organizations of Nigeria (BON), Media Independent Practitioners Association
of Nigeria (MiPAN) and Advertisers Association of Nigeria (ADVAN), that will
ensure that system is transparent and rewarding. Members of the Task Team
are Alhaji Garba Bello Kankarofi, a former Registrar of the Advertising
Practitioners Council of Nigeria (APCON), as Chairman, Mr. Obi Asika, Hajia
Sa’aa Ibrahim, Mr. Mahmoud Ali Balogun, Mrs Pauline Ehusani, a representative
of the Association of Advertising Agencies of Nigeria and Mr. Joe Mutah as
Secretary. The Task Team will be
inaugurated at a date to be announced later