 The Federal Commissioner of the National
Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons, Sen.
Basheer Garba Mohammed has distributed relief items to displaced victims of
banditry attacks in Batsari LGA of Katsina State. The distribution exercise
targeted 42,000 displaced persons across 7 communities in the local government.
At the symbolic handover of relief items to widows who survived the violence
meted out on the community by bandits. In a statement by the Head of Media and
Communications Strategy at the agency, Alkasim Abdulkadir, he stated that
earlier on the Federal Commissioner had paid a courtesy call to the
Governor of Katsina State, Aminu Bello Masari. Where he commiserated with the
Governor over the killings and destruction in the State. “We commiserate with you over
the incessant attacks suffered by rural communities in Katsina
State, especially the recent tragic attacks in Tsabuwa in Batsari Local
Government Area, Gurbi and other parts of Kankara Local Government
Area. Those who lost their lives and property were our brothers, sisters,
parents and innocent children. We commiserate with the communities
and the State as a whole. We recognize the pain that comes
from these senseless acts of destruction” In his response Gov. Masari condemned the
attacks while describing the destruction in tragic details. “This is a barbaric and
animalistic behaviour because the perpetrators of these crimes are like animals
because they don’t have western or Qur’anic education. These people are
living with animals in the bush without any education, they behave like the
wild animals in the bush,” the governor
said. The beneficiaries received grains, hygiene
products and household items. Responding one of the beneficiaries Aisha
Tumba who lost her only son Mallam Musa Sani in the attacks said, her son who
was the bread winner left her with 20 children of varying ages and it’s now her
responsibility to cater for them. “I thank them for giving me this things it
will go a long way in helping me and the children left behind, I have 20
children to care for” she said. Sen. Mohammed while responding to newsmen said
it has become imperative for the commission to respond to the plight of the
IDPs especially the widows in order to help ameliorate the present plight. He
used the occasion to also  to announce the
proposed NCFRMI Resettlement City Development Project. “Katsina will be
one of seven other States that will benefit from this
500 household Resettlement City intervention – fully
equipped with facilities and livelihood support schemes. Each Resettlement City is proposed to have a clinic and
educational learning centre that will ensure the health and wellbeing of
citizens and support our children in Katsina to a
good education regardless of their economic status”