The
FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello today
flagged off the one-way directional road traffic on the Southern Park Way in
the Federal Capital City (FCC). Conducting
Journalists round major points of the road, Malam Bello said, “This is one
particular project on which we have spent enormous amount of time and resources
because without completing this project, the northern and southern sectors of
Abuja would not be connected. We’ve allowed traffic movement for the last few
months just to allow construction to continue. But we have reached a certain
milestone where we will now start enforcing the one-way traffic system”. The
Minister explained that in the last few years, the FCT Administration had spent
a lot of time and resources towards the completion of major arterial roads
within the city while expressing joy that most of them have reached a level of
completion and could now be opened to the public. Describing
infrastructure in Abuja as second to none in Africa, the Minister commended the
efforts of Engineers of the Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA) and
SETRACO, the contractors handling the project, for a job well done while urging
the contractors to expedite efforts to ensure 100 per cent completion of the
project. He
said: “I’m so pleased to say that the partnership between the FCDA and SETRACO
Nigeria Limited has been very beneficial to the city because I’m sure all of
you know that the twin bridges were concluded about the same time and you can
see how these bridges were able to link the northern and the southern parts of
the city” “For
us, this is a very important project. It also underscores the cardinal
principle of President Muhammadu Buhari’s Administration, which is infrastructure,
because the way that Nigeria is growing and cities like Abuja are growing, if
we do not complete major infrastructure projects, it will affect our economic
development”. Still
speaking on the president, Malam Bello said “ if you look at what President Muhammadu
Buhari is doing with emphasis on the road, rail and telecommunication
infrastructure, you’ll find that this is the foundation of any meaningful
development”. While
charging residents of the city to use the infrastructure provided by the FCTA
properly, the Minister also thanked the Senate for approving the portion of the
Federal Government foreign loans that affect the FCT. He
said “they approved two very important projects- the continuation of the phase
two of the Abuja Light Rail project as well as the widening of the Greater
Abuja Water Works.  These are all very fundamental legacy projects, the
benefits of which we will see in many years to come”. The
Southern Park Way, which is the cultural spine of Abuja, is a road complex
traversing four key roads in the city’s main business districts of Garki and
Central Business District with a complex network of access ways connecting
Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA),
Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC) and the Nigeria
Television Authority (NTA). The remaining stretch of the road which ends at
Nnamdi Azikiwe Expressway has also been completed is also on-going.