The
Gombe Zonal Office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, on
Wednesday, March 18, 2020, arraigned the ex- Accountant General of the Bauchi
State government, Yusuf Ibrahim Gokaru and the State Director of Finance,
Ibrahim Muhammed Lele. They were arraigned before Justice A.H Suleiman of the
Bauchi State High Court on 42 count-charges, bordering on obtaining by false
pretence, conspiracy, money laundering and concealment of the source and origin
of the money. The
arrest and arraignment of the defendants was sequel to a petition from Bauchi
State Government, dated August 26, 2019. Gokaru
and Lele were alleged to have connived and used their official positions as
Accountant General of Bauchi State government and Director Finance of the same
office to obtain the sum of N258, 363, 200, (Two Hundred and Fifty Eight
Million, Three Hundred and Sixty Three Thousand, Two Hundred Naira) only for
their personal use. The
money was from the World Bank as an assistance to Bauchi State Government under
the programme of State Education Programme Investment Project (SEPIP), instead
of using the fund for the project, the defendants allegedly concealed the
source of the money by transferring from the Bauchi State Consolidated Naira
Account, domiciled at Polaris Bank to a Unity Bank, suspected to be their
personal accounts Operatives
of the Commission in the course of investigation, recovered more than N80
million, prompting the EFCC to charged the defendants to Court. One
of the charge reads: “That you, Yusuf Ibrahim Gokaru and  Ibrahim Muhammed
Lele on or about the 16th day of August, 2018 at Bauchi, Bauchi State within
the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court, with intent to defraud, did obtain
money to the tune of Two Hundred Million Naira  (N200,000,000.00)
properties of Bauchi State Government with assistance from World Bank by
falsely representing that the said sum was to be used for State Education
programme Investment project  (SEPIP) which Pretence you knew to be false
and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 1 (1) (a) of the Advance
Fee Fraud and other Fraud Related Offences Act, 2006 and Punishable under
Section 1 (3) of the same Act”. The
defendants pleaded not guilty to all the 42 count-charge preferred against them
by the EFCC. The
prosecution counsel, A .Y Muntaka, applied for a trial date to enable him assemble
his witnesses and necessary documents to be tendered as exhibits. But
the defence counsel, Babangida Muhammad, filed for bail application of the
defendants. Justice
Suleiman, while adjourning the case till April 28, 2020, for trial, granted the
defendants bail in the sum of N10 million each and two sureties in like sum. He
said the sureties must be of grade level 14 and must own landed property within
GRA in Bauchi and to deposit same at the Registry of the court.