 Reading the news last week, the most
refreshing was the Supreme Court dismissal of the applications seeking to
review the earlier judgment of the court on Balyelsa gubernatorial election. Without prejudice to the expected judgement of the Supreme
Court on Imo, I commend the  Supreme Court, which last
Wednesday, upheld its earlier judgement and went further to fine Chief Afe
Babalola (SAN) and Chief Wole Olanipekun (SAN) N30 million each for agreeing to
file an application for the review of the apex court’s judgment on Bayelsa
election. It is commendable that for once, Supreme Court damned what is
increasingly seen as a budding dictatorship of some lawyers and desperate
politicians which if not checked might undermine democracy. Nigeria must
uphold the rule of law as distinct of rule of some senior lawyers in
collaboration with some desperate politicians. Justice Amina Augie, who read
the lead judgment, observed rightly that the applications amounted to an
“attempt to make the court violate its rules and the provision of the
constitution, which makes it the final court of the land”. The justice further
held that the applications, if granted, had the capacity to belittle the
dignity and status of the court and open a floodgate for such requests in the
future. Of
particular importance was her “regret” that “senior lawyers in the country
could be involved in the filing of such applications, which it further
described as regrettable motions and a deliberate desecration of the
judiciary”. Her quotable quote: “I feel like shedding tears that senior
counsel, in this case, would ever bring this kind of frivolous applications
during my life time.”  The court, rightly  dismissed the two
applications filed and argued on behalf of the applicants by their counsel,
Chief Afe Babalola (SAN) and Chief Wole Olanipekun (SAN), on the grounds that
they were without merit and amounted to an abuse of court process. The
seven-man panel headed by Justice Sylvester Ngwuta, described APC’s request for
a review of the judgment that voided the participation of its candidate in the
Bayelsa governorship election as “vexatious, frivolous and an abuse of court
process.”  I also hail the ousted APC governor-elect of Bayelsa State,
David Lyon, for his statesmanship for accepting the final ruling of Nigeria’s highest
court, Supreme Court that nullified his victory at the November 16th, 2019
governorship election in the State. Democracy tasks all stakeholders to abide
by the rule of law if democracy would be sustainable. Some lawyers are turning
  courts as temple of justice into arena of legal transactions
of market place in which any brief is acceptable.  Prominent Senior
advocates who are eager to hold briefs both for the opposition and ruling
parties alike. No more legal taboos of the old as anything is open to
litigations. Endless  litigations over electoral matters must give way to
matured political culture which must start with respect for finality of court
rulings by contestants.   After 20 years of democracy, it’s time to learn
from the past experiences and avoid the pitfall of how endless litigations,
suits and counter suits which helped to undermine the first and second
Republics.  During the controversial June 12 crisis, for instance the
judiciary was central to the political impasse which led to the criminal
annulment of the June 12, 1993 presidential election which Chief Moshood
Kashimawo Olawale Abiola was poised to win. Specifically, Justice Bassey Ikpeme who
ordered that the election should not hold on the eve of the historic poll, was
one of his judges. In addition, Saleh ordered Professor Humphrey Nwosu, the
Chairman of the National Electoral Commission, to stop announcing the election
results almost mid way into the exercise. Some lawyers got the tragic briefs.
Both the bar and the bench must help to deepen democracy not undermining it
through frivolous transactional litigations. Also the despicable idea of
demonstrations at EU and American embassies to resolve electoral matters is not
only ill informed  but unacceptable and must be discouraged. Americans
would not go to Nigerian embassy in Washington to perfect their electoral
processes which indeed are full of imperfections. At weekend I paid a visit to the state
secretariat of Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Kaduna State Council, in
Kaduna where  I formally registered my condolence  on the death of
former Treasurer and Secretary of Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) Kaduna
State Council, Chief Dominic Uzu. He died on Tuesday February 4, 2020
following a tragic fatal accident along Kaduna-Zaria Highway. Dominic Uzu was a
tested Journalist. His tragic death was a great loss to the Nigeria Union of
Journalists (NUJ), his family and all his colleagues in the profession. The
best way to mourn Comrade Dominic Uzu is to collectively put an end to cheap
and callous wastage of human lives, (low or high alike) on our roads. 
Tears are not just enough.  There is an urgent need to rebuild our roads
and ensure safety rules are observed with a view of reducing accidents on our
roads. Seeing the poor survivors and dependents of victims of roads accidents
should make us change our perception of   accident victims as mere
statistics! Accident victims are humans (mothers, fathers, sisters, brothers,
bread winners,) with all the valued human relationships suddenly
terminated on account of avoidable “accidents”. A visit to  a typical
emergency/casualty ward in our hospital shows that road accidents do as much
violence as terrorism does. Sudden deaths of  working journalists and
Nigerians in general  further point to crisis of road governance in
Nigeria. Nigeria today qualifies as an unofficial global capital of “road
accidents”. Every year, over 39,000  Nigerians die from road crashes. In
the 2018 Global Status Report on Road Safety, the World Health Organization
(WHO) estimated road traffic fatalities in Nigeria at 39,802, while the
estimated rate per 100,000 deaths stood at 21.4. Nigeria losses more humans on
road accidents  than estimated 11,310 deaths reported in Guinea, Liberia,
and Sierra Leone due to Ebola epidemic! We must halt this road-terrorism, or
better still road virus called accident. An accident is defined as happening
“unexpected” or “unplanned”. The accident which killed Dominic was as a result
of over-speeding,  involving two vehicles, (a DAF truck and a Toyota Hiace
commercial Bus) and bad road (potholes). Most  roads are unmotorable.
Drivers are reckless and often our road safety officials are not on duty. When
accidents prove addictive as they are in Nigeria, they are no more “accidental”.
Addictive accidents mean incidents for which the governments at all levels must
be concerned to put an end to.  These “accidents” are certainly not
inevitable. Issa Aremu, mni