Text of State
Broadcast by Malam Nasir El-Rufai, Governor of Kaduna State, on
emergency measures taken to protect residents from Covid-19, Monday, 23rd
March 2020 My dear people of
Kaduna State, It is a sad fact
that coronavirus is in Nigeria. I address you today to reinforce the message
that the danger from Covid-19 is real. This disease has devastated countries
all over the world. Even the most advanced nations are struggling to contain
the virus. Our best chance to contain the disease is to prevent it from taking
root and spreading in our state. I wish to
reiterate that given our circumstances in Nigeria, with the limited capacity of
our health system, preventive measures are the best way to protect our people.
The Deputy Governor, Dr, Hadiza Sabuwa Balarabe and I, jointly hosted a live
media chat last Friday on this matter. During the two hours of the chat, we
reminded people to observe personal hygiene, especially respiratory hygiene,
wash their hands regularly with soap and water, and avoid large gatherings. Earlier
that Friday, we had issued a statement restricting large gatherings and advising
religious and community leaders to help ensure compliance with the guidelines
from public health experts. Let me put on
record our gratitude to those religious leaders who complied with the
restriction on large gatherings and have also spoken up to support the
preventive measures. Over the weekend, we also sadly observed shocking levels
of complacency as some people ignored their responsibility to uphold preventive
measures. We received reports of congregations in some churches and mosques, as
well as large crowds in weddings and other social activities. These actions
indicate that such persons people do not realise the gravity of the threat that
we confront. While no case of Covid-19 has been reported Kaduna
State so far, the government has a duty to work with all our leaders and
residents of our state to jointly ensure that everything is done to reduce the
chance of the disease taking root and spreading in the state. Therefore, the
Kaduna State Government has decided to move from advice to actual enforcement
of its restrictions on large gatherings, especially in churches and mosques.
Security agencies have been directed to ensure compliance across the state.
These agencies will also enforce compliance with the decision to close all
schools, whether public or private, religious or secular, Islamiya or run by
Christian missions. The state
government will not hesitate to impose a statewide curfew, should that become
the only way to enforce compliance and make everyone understand the collective
danger that we face. The emphasis on prevention is the only logical thing to do
because our health system cannot cope with an outbreak of Covid-19. It is better
to impose restrictions and save lives, than to be complacent and bury victims. Countries
that have hesitated to impose extraordinary measures to contain coronavirus are
now regretting. We have a chance to avoid such mistakes. Therefore, we reiterate the advise for people
to stay at home and avoid moving around, unless it becomes necessary. Every
trip should be postponed until this pandemic is curtailed. Only those who are
alive can travel. Keep yourself and others safe by staying in one place. To
this end, we have contacted the relevant federal authorities to stop the
Abuja-Kaduna train service and thus limit the danger from contact on the train
and influx from people who might have been exposed to infected persons. At a
time of danger, non-essential travel is a dangerous luxury and there is no point
pretending that we are in normal times. I want to urge
all citizens who recently returned from travel overseas to please self-isolate
for 14 days. Any symptoms of cough,
fever or difficulty in breathing should be reported to the following numbers: 08025088304,
08032401473, 08035871662 and 08037808191; Further to this
necessity to minimise movement, the Kaduna State Government is directing civil
servants from Level 12 and below to remain at home for the next 30 days,
effective from Tuesday, 24th March 2020. Workers providing essential
services, especially in the health, security and emergency service sectors are
exempt from this directive. We urge every other person to stay at home and
avoid unnecessary travel. Markets
constitute a source of large gatherings. To manage this in the interim, only
traders selling food and medicines are permitted to open their shops, effective
from Tuesday, 24th March 2020. This directive will be vigorously
enforced by the security agencies and the Kaduna Markets Development and Management
Company which will also ensure that all markets are fumigated. The Kaduna State
Government is closely observing the implementation of these measures and the
evolving global picture and will not hesitate to impose a lockdown of the
entire state, if events dictate. This will be done with every effort to take
care of the poor and vulnerable. My dear people of
Kaduna State, let us face this danger with utmost faith in Almighty God who has
gifted us with the knowledge to make rational decisions. Let each of us do our
duty to prevent coronavirus from spreading among us. Failure to do so is to
impose a death sentence on others. We can do better by acting in a responsible
manner.