 The Human and Environmental
Development Agenda (HEDA Resource Centre), a leading anti-corruption
organisation and “PLAY!YA Nigeria”, a Lagos-based sports-focused
Non-Governmental Organisation have called on sports journalists to shine the
spotlight on corruption in Nigeria’s sports sector, saying: “corruption is the
major factor responsible for underdevelopment and crippling of sports and youth
development in Nigeria.” In a statement issued in Abuja on
Tuesday, March 10, 2020 at the opening of a two-day training for sports
journalists and jointly signed by Mr Olanrewaju Suraju, Chairman of HEDA
Resource Centre and Mr Eze Alloysius, Executive Director of PLAY!YA Nigeria,
the organisations observed that the current situation where the media
concentrate on sports statistics or spectacular goals as in the in the case of
Professional Football League for instance, without bothering much about
investigating and exposing the ills within the sport system is worrisome. “Doping or match fixing, sexual
harassment as well as non-payment of allowances to athletes and players, among
other forms of corruption, are major issues impeding sports development in the
country; these should be issues of major concern to the Nigerian media”, they
said. According to Mr Suraju, the organisations
convened the event titled: “Tackling corruption and under-development of sports
in Nigeria: investigative reporting for the common good and sport development”
and brought together over 30 sports journalists from across the country with
support of the “Upright for Nigeria” and UKaid to train reporters with a view
to setting the pace for investigative reporting to expose the corruption in the
sector and engender sports and youth development in the country. In his opening remark, Mr Alloysius
noted that; “The grassroots athletes and players are worst hit by the
corruption and maladministration in sports. Many grassroots teams are without
any facility for practice and qualified coaches to train them. Government
subventions, royalties, sponsorship deals, adverts among other monies accruable
to the sport federations are in most cases diverted, spent or squandered
through the elite teams without recourse to grassroots development. “Equally worrisome is the mad rush
for foreign athletes and players as if there were no young people in the
country who are engaged in sports. It must be recalled that in the 1980s and
1990s, virtually all Nigeria’s major athletes and players were groomed within
the country before leaving to further their career abroad when necessary. But
nowadays, the reverse is the case: We have federation presidents going to
foreign countries to beg prominent athletes and players with dual citizenship
to come and represent Nigeria in major competitions.” He added: “the
‘appropriation’ of Anthony Joshua to be a Nigerian after a successful career in
boxing abroad is a good example.” Mr Alloysius posited that the
passion for sports have swayed many away from other issues affecting sports
including corruption and maladministration, thus making it easy for sports
officials and the representatives of sports federations to get away with the
corruption. Urging the sports journalists to act
accordingly, participants said: “In all these malfeasance, the only genuine and
responsible body everyone looks up to for intelligence, scoop and information
is the press! The role of sports journalists in investigating and reporting
cases of corruption and maladministration in sports governance cannot be
overemphasised. However, the Nigeria media is lagging behind in discharging
this onerous duty to the public. Therefore, this training should be a wake up
call.” While delivering his goodwill
message, Mr Okeke Patrick, Deputy Director of grassroots sports development at
the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development, urged journalists to be
courageous and work with the HEDA and PLAY!YA to investigate as well as rid the
Nigerian sports sector of corruption, noting that: “Nigeria has lost its past
glory in sports to corruption.” Mr Kayode Thomas who presented a
paper titled, “the corruption situation in Nigeria and its effect on the sports
sector”, noted that “The media is the pillar on which sports rests today, apart
from multi-billion-dollar television deals without which sports will revert to
what it was decades ago, a mere recreational exercise with just medals as
rewards. Media scrutiny ensures sanity and discipline in the industry and
ensures the sustainability of the sector through reports.” He highlighted match-fixing, illegal
betting, insider information, bad governance, conflicts of interests, use of
clubs as shell companies, doping, fraud, bribery and nepotism as the major
corruption issues in the Nigeria sports sectors citing various examples, all of
which kill sports. He therefore urged that: Media owners should support their
reporters and encourage them to produce good investigative stories. Stating
further, he said that there should be holistic grooming of new generation of
newsroom leaders. He added: “There should be effective collaboration between
the media, civil society organisations and the anti-graft agencies to cure the
sports system of corruption. The media should also make radical efforts to rid
itself of corruption.” He concluded quoting Naomi Klein that: “Journalists make
choices at key moments in history, they aren’t mere spectators.” Godwin Enakhena, former Chairman of
MFM Football Club who also made presentation at the event, titled: “Media
reporting on sports development in Nigeria; Favouring corruption or working for
the common good?” observed that: “We can all feel and see the corruption in
sports, but we still need to proof it.” Therefore, he commended HEDA and
PLAY!YA for putting together the training and urged journalists to rise to the
occasion in ways that transcends the hypocrisy in the sports journalism sector.