 True
to expectation, the Abuja Memorial colloquium in honour of Bjorn Beckman, 
radical  political economy scholar in Ahmadu Bello University  (ABU)
brought to the fore a  nostalgia  of developmentalist Nigeria
and  a productive industrializing North in particular who died at 81,
November, 2019 in Stockholm, Sweden. Thanks to Dr Kole Shettima Committee of
friends, former students and colleagues of the scholar, who put up the
manifestation which through tributes word counts  and Democracy discourse
offered a timely throw back at  a developing productive Federal Republic
in the 70s and 80s. I agree with Adagbo Onoja who in a review of the robust
views concludes that “Bjorn Beckman is a friend of Nigeria in that, even at
death, he is still contributing to the possible remaking of Nigeria.” Which
then raises the critical question: should radicals and comrades be gathering
for posthumous reflections after departed comrades or ever remain active to
daily battle of political ideas and praxis to change the world urgently begging
for leadership? Just imagine if Abuja Thursday grounding had taken place
when  Bjorn Beckman was alive! What with debates, contestations and
clarifications from him? As I pointed out in the tribute on behalf of the
National Union of Textile, Garment and Tailoring Workers of Nigeria (NUTGWN) in
Gunilla and BB, I and many of his comrades in the textile union, (cited in
their book) that include, Adams Oshiomhole,  Alhaji Shittu, Umaru
Mohammed, Patrick Dabo, Samson Omoruran, John Bull Ojo, A.B. Dania, E.A.
Olaleke, Ugochukwu Ene and Salihu Lukman, had long and rewarding dose of
comradeship, warmth, intellectual integrity and rigor, and generosity. The book
Union Power in the Nigerian Textile Industry: Labour Regime and Adjustment
published in 1998 by him  is a reference book of first reading on
Textile union. The couple first ..”met the union in full swing when
attending its Third Triennial National Delegates Conference held at Durbar in
November 1986. “The mood” they wrote was “militant and enthusiastic, despite
crisis, adjustment and political repression”. Almost 35 years after here
in Abuja, the union’s 12th Quadrennial National Delegates’ Conference 
holds  from Tuesday 24th to Thursday 26th March 2020. BB in the
grave would be excited that the mood would still be “militant and enthusiastic”
despite the current crisis facing the industry.  Yes of course” there is
still more “union power” as he observed ! The union continues  the
struggle for a living wage for members.  45 National collective agreements
have been signed with the Nigeria Textile Garment and Tailoring Employers
Association (NTGTEA) since 1978, covering critical items that
include basic salary, housing, transport, medical, food subsidy,
leave/leave allowance, overtime among others without a single nation-wide
strike. The collective agreements had been published in partnership with
the International Labour Organization (ILO).  The union is the first in
the private sector to be so proactive in getting more than the new N30,000
minimum wage, bringing minimum wage in the industry to about N45,000 per month
excluding overtime and other locally negotiated allowances.  The
Market values of the union assets in Kaduna, Lagos, Kano, Abuja and Katsina are
in billions of Naira. The union has also organized the unorganized
self-employed tailors in Lagos, Ogun, Kwara, Kaduna, Benue, Niger, Abuja,
Katsina, Kano, Sokoto, Kebbi, Kogi, Cross River, Edo, Imo among
others. Thanks to the research by BB and Gunilla which offered insights to
how tailors are organized. The union had invested enormous resources in
education, women and youth participation. The Union continues to maintain
active role at the level of IndustriALL global Union as the union General
Secretary, Comrade Issa Aremu was elected Vice President at the 2nd World
Congress in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil in October 2016.  The union is
respected globally for its commitment to the strategic goals of IndustriALL
Global Union namely; Building Union Power, Confront Global Capital, Defense
of Workers’ Rights, Fight Precarious Work and Ensure Sustainable Industrial
Development. Beckman
and Andrea diligently brought out refreshing original findings and conclusions
about “NUTGTWN: it’s experiences, problems and achievements”.  The
finding is that in the textile industry, a “union based labour regime”
characterized by domination and contestation is entrenched. Drawing a
bigger picture from this, the authors observed that the emergence of union
power reflects the capability of Nigeria’s society to manage conflicts through
contestation and consensus building, representation and mediation as well as
contribution to the ‘democratic reconstitution of the state’.  It is
now fashionable  to define Northern Nigeria and indeed Nigeria in terms of
poverty. Beckman shows that poverty narrative is ahistorical and untenable.
Their Six textile case mills in Kano and Kaduna, are all in the North. 
The oldest mill, KTL, (where BB’s studies began in 1984) started in 1957,
indeed first in Nigeria. At its peak in the early 70s, direct employment ranged
between 4000 and 5000. In 1979, as many as 8000 workers were employed in UNTL
which started production in 1965. Combined jobs in Chellco, 284 NTM in Kano,
2500 Bagauda, Gaskiya 2000, stood at some 5000. All the textile mills in
Nigeria at the peak in 70s and 80s employed as many as 350, 000 direct jobs
more than the Federal government! Indeed North was the home of prosperity, full
decent employment reinforced by union power. We must promote the historic
prosperity/employment narrative of BB and Gunilla and stop top-down agonizing
about poverty. Blessed
are the dead for they shall no more be suspected of our current failings. The
best tribute to BB  will be to  revive the industry which once
served  as a case study that African Industrialization was possible.
Industry must go farming again as BB documented. It’s all about a new
radical developmentalist political economy. There must be a development agenda
driven by committed leadership within the context of globalization. It is
unacceptable that UNTL and Chellco textile mills in Kaduna are operating
today.  If the late Premier Ahmadu Bello nurtured and expanded textile
production out of nothing, 19 Northern states governors must make the region an
investment/employment destination. In 1986, when the union power study by BB
commenced, the industry remains the key driver of sustainable jobs and
development for most national economies of developing nations.  Indeed for
Nigeria and Africa to meet the Sustainable Development Goal 2030, especially
SDG 9 dealing with industry and innovation, Africa continent must
innovate and industrialize. Africa must copy China’s industrialization
drive which has within 20 years moved over 250 million people out of poverty
through manufacturing, beneficiation and industrialization. Issa
Aremu mni