The Federal Capital Territory Administration has pledged its
support for States in their efforts to upgrade their Geographic Information
System (GIS) for efficient land administration. This pledge was made by the Minister of the FCT, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello when a delegation led by the Commissioner of Lands and Survey of Adamawa State paid a courtesy visit to the FCTA. The Minister said that it has been the policy of the FCT to
assist other sub-nationals in the country in the upgrade of their land
management processes. In his words “the issue of digitalization and modernizing
the land system has already been agreed by the National Council of Land,
Housing and Urban Development and many states have gone very far. In the FCT,
it’s common knowledge that we are now at a very advanced stage. So it has
always been a policy of the FCT Administration to support other sub-nationals
within the Nigerian federation to be able to upgrade their system. So, I assure
you that we will also continue with that policy and provide you all the needed
support”. Speaking on the importance of modernizing the land
management process in the country, Malam Bello said that land was one of the
greatest assets that all governments across the country have by virtue of the
Land Use Decree. Therefore he continued, it was very important that all land
issues were well documented and digitalized. Malam Bello also commented on the role of a transparent and
efficient land processing system on the ease of doing Business ranking of the
country. He Said “you know also that in the ease of doing business, land and
land related matters weigh very heavily on how countries are ranked. If land
management systems and land transfer systems are modernized and made very
transparent, devoid of corruption and also made very clear to people, I think
it has direct bearing on the ease of doing business of countries and also
enhances business. Speaking earlier, the Adamawa State Commissioner of Lands
and Survey Alhaji Ibrahim Mijinyawa Yayaji, said that his delegation was in the
FCT to seek for technical support for the upgrading of the Adamawa State
GIS.  In his words “we have our own baby
GIS but we feel that definitely, we need to upgrade and there is no other place
that we feel we can get this kind of assistance better than here in the FCT.
That is why we are here to pay this call and also to make a plea to the FCT Administration
so that we can have that assistance from you. Also present during the courtesy visit were the Director
Urban and Regional Planning FCTA, TPL Zaliha’u Ahmed, mni, Director, AGIS, Dr
Isa Jalo and other Directors of the FCTA.