 FCT
Minister, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello has said that the FCT Administration will
continue to support the FCT/Leventis Center for Integrated Agricultural
Development and Training ,Yaba, in Abaji Area Council for the training of young
Nigerians in modern agricultural practices. Malam
Bello stated this when he paid a visit to the Center, which is managed by the
Leventis Foundation. The
Minister said, “We will work with you closely because what you are doing here
is great and it is going to be the foundation of what we all stand for,
especially our leader, President Muhammadu Buhari, who always says we have to
eat what we grow and we have to grow what we eat”. Malam
Bello who alluded to an agricultural revolution in the country, said Nigeria
was now self-sufficient in a number of grains and have potential also to be
self-sufficient in so many things. He said “ if you look at the environment
here, you have enough facilities to be able to provide fruits and vegetables
for the entire Abuja city”. While
commending the passion of the Chairman, Leventis Nigeria, Mr Ahmed Mantey,
towards improving the training center, the Minister stressed that the school
should enroll more students. He said “the school was established to teach and
develop our youth, men and women from all the six Area Councils and indeed
across Nigeria. So, I think we have to think of tripling the number of people
we have here because there are so many people who need the support”. Earlier,
the Chairman, Leventis Foundation Nigeria, Ahmed Manteh, said the Leventis Foundation will
continue to work to promote sustainability in agriculture and food production
in Nigeria and beyond through training, offered by the Foundation, on
sustainable agriculture. He
said: “Our approach has been to attract youth into agriculture and equip them
with the necessary skills for producing food and for earning sustainable
livelihood”, adding that, the Minister’s presence at the school was a clear
demonstration of his commitment to youth development, grassroots empowerment as
well as poverty alleviation. Mantey
assured the Minister of the Foundation’s dedication to providing quality
training in agricultural businesses for people in the FCT while also commending
him for exemplary leadership as demonstrated by the rehabilitation of the
bridge at Ashara Wako and the road improvement works as well as ensuring that
the counterpart funds that are due to the training institute were duly paid. The
Minister who was in company of the Permanent Secretary and other senior
officials of the FCTA took an extensive tour of the Center.