 The FCT
Administration has commenced massive regularization of Area Council and Mass
Housing land titles within the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. The project
which is being carried out under the Accelerated Area Councils and Sectional
Titles Re-Issuance Scheme (AACSTRIS) will be given a massive boost as budgetary
allocation in the 2020 appropriation and manpower have been deployed to fast
track the implementation process. Director/Chief
Executive Officer of the Abuja Geographic Information Systems (AGIS), Dr. Isa
Ibrahim Jalo, disclosed this in an interaction with newsmen at the weekend in
his office at No. 4, Peace Drive, Central Business District, Abuja. The Director
revealed that AGIS has already received about 10,000 applications from the
public for regularization of their Area Councils titles; equally 22 Mass
Housing developers have also made submissions. He further
revealed that since the new Section commenced work in earnest, about 1,530
Rights of Occupancy (R-of-O) have been prepared and ready for collection by the
beneficiaries of the Mass Housing Scheme. Dr. Jalo added
that about 300 Rights of Occupancy have been released to the allottees of the Area
Councils titles as 30 Area Councils layouts have been vetted and ready for
regularization. The Director
said that the process of issuance of Certificates of Occupancy for about 250
beneficiaries of Mass Housing Scheme have reached an advanced stage, now
awaiting developers’ compliance with terms of Rights of Occupancy to enable
issuance of Certificates of Occupancy. Dr. Jalo
revealed that the FCT Administration decided to resuscitate AACSTRIS in order
to ensure that all Area Councils’ titles records are properly cleaned to avoid
cases of multiple allocations and other sundry issues. His words: “In
order to drive this policy effectively, the FCT Administration has created a
specialized Section with an Annex Office beside AGIS Complex, to be manned by
competent personnel drawn from various land related departments”. The Director
disclosed that considering the importance of the project, the National Assembly
has appropriated funds in this year’s budget for the execution of this very
important project. According to
him, “with the commencement of this scheme, the knotty issue of double and
multiple ownership of plots in the Area Councils of the Territory, which is as
a result of forgery of documents by racketeers will soon be a thing of the past”. He said the
scheme is expected to first and foremost, issue statutory Rights of Occupancy
and subsequently, Certificates of Occupancy to bonafide owners of titles in the
Area Councils and Mass Housing. He reiterated
that AGIS is also working assiduously to bring all its payments online for the
comfort and easy accessibility of its customers, in consonance with the Ease of
Doing Business policy of the Federal Government.