 By
Ibrahim Mohammed The
Minister of Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Abuja, Mallam Muhammad Musa Bello,
has described infrastructure in the territory as ‘‘second to none’’ on the
continent. Bello,
who stated this on Monday, at the official commencement of One Way Movement on
the newly completed Southern Parkway, also assured that the President Muhammadu
Buhari- led administration was committed to the provision of sustainable
infrastructure with a view to opening Abuja and Nigeria in general for the much
desired development in the country, pointing out that ‘‘if we do not complete
infrastructure projects, it will drag us back.’’ In
this vein, he said the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA), will
shore up its internally generated (IGR) revenues by blocking leakages among
other measures to enable the FCTA raise enough funds to complement cash flow
from the federation account for projects execution. Also,
he lauded the professionalism of indigenous engineers in the supervision of
completed and ongoing projects in the territory. He equally expressed
satisfaction with the partnership between the FCTA and SETRACO, a contracting
firm, saying the relationship ‘‘has been very beneficial’’ in projects
execution. Newsdiaryonline
recalls that the Southern Parkway is one of the
longest roads in Nigeria’s capital, stretching from the Central Business
District and traverses all the four phases of Abuja City, with facilities
including streetlights, underpasses amongst other. Meanwhile, the Minister has ordered the removal of businesses
including heavy construction equipment rental services located on green areas
along expressways in Jahi District latest by Friday this week. Irked by the conversion of green areas for business purposes in
the area, Mallam Bello, who was on a tour of some projects made a stop over in
Jahi District where he urged the FCTA Department of Development Control to
ensure that such places are not abused. Besides, Bello reiterated that there was the need to maintain the
beauty of Abuja in line with global practices. On her part, FCT Minister of State, Dr, Ramatu Tijani Aliyu,
called for the planting of scenic trees to give it the desired look once
businesses are removed from the green areas along the expressway.