PRESS RELEASE: ICPC COVID-19 MANAGEMENT AND
ANTI-CORRUPTION ADVISORY As the nation reels from the effect
of COVID-19, ICPC wishes to caution against increase in risky behaviour hinged
on critical desire to respond to COVID-19. From past experience, national
emergencies and pandemics instigate need for proactive measures driven by local
or national exigency such as the times that we are in. However, bearing in mind
that the stark reality of the inadequacy and vulnerability of our health system
cannot be separated from the negative effects and  impact of persistent
corruption in past years of the locusts, we caution against the exigency of the
times resulting in further undermining the credibility and stability of
Nigeria’s health system including the well being of those who operate therein
and the citizens to be catered for. Emergency response is not immune to
corruption risks. As the threat to national livelihood increases, so do the
vulnerabilities to dishonesty. Corrupt public and private sector individuals
will again test the nation’s anti-corruption architecture and commitment to
integrity. It has happened before and may happen again. We have seen corruption
in past responses to – ◦ managing the needs of internally
displaced persons; ◦ treatment of persons affected by
natural disasters or acts of God; ◦ delivery of government palliatives
for the poorest of the poor; ◦ Implementation of policies to
address critical economic vulnerabilities such as assistance to SME; poverty
alleviation programmes; improvement in education, promotion of agriculture etc. These emergencies did not prick the
conscience of greedy policy makers and public and private sector implementers
of otherwise noble and responsive government policies not to exploit the dire
situation to negative advantage. This very attitude of greed and impunity is
what has consistently undermined positive outcomes from otherwise well
thought-out national response programmes and laid-out plans that covered
everything except keeping corruption in implementation at bay. Therefore, ICPC, while commending
the gallant role being played by all those currently involved in responding to
this pandemic wishes to remind us of corruption vulnerabilities in COVID-19
management and response. Please take note and avoid these
pitfalls- 1. Corruption risks inherent in
emergency procurement; 2. Non-compliance with laid-down
procedures – get necessary  approvals. In emergencies approvals are not
delayed; 3. Disregarding due diligence; 4.  Neglecting post quarantine
management and regulatory controls; 5. Ignoring financial control
regulations and limits; 6. Engaging in conflict of interest,
nepotism, padding, inflated costs and other risky behaviour in the name of
emergency response. This Advisory is not finger pointing
at the health sector or its leaders and others in government and outside
government who have sacrificially and admirably led our response to COVID-19
 thus far.  It is an opportunity for reflection and warning to all
Nigerians at national and sub-national levels that it is wise to remember that
keeping safe distancing from post-pandemic corruption investigation in any
sector of the economy is as important as safe social distancing to prevent
COVID-19. The noble desire of government to
ameliorate the pain of citizens in these difficult times should not be
converted to another rue de la corruption . COVID-19 should not be used as
excuse for corruption in any sector of the economy. Better to be safe than sorry.
Responding to this or any other emergency or implementation of government
policy for that matter should not increase integrity deficit or risky
behaviour. Keep your social distance from
corruption. Signed: Mrs. Rasheedat A. Okoduwa,
mni Spokesperson for the Commission