 The
only difference between a dangerous virus and a nuclear weapon is perhaps the
mushroom cloud; they both explode, destroy, and change course of human history.
Little wonder that biohazards were developed and worse even used at some dark
moments in living memory. This is no time to be distracted by conspiracy
theories but it will be good to learn more about the collapsed building in
China. Former
German Chancellor Gerhadt Schroeder while being evacuated moments after the 911
attacks managed to answer a reporter saying “these attacks have changed the
World”. He did not say will change, but have changed. He was so right. Covid19
changed the World the moment governments and media gave it the deserved
reactions they did. As
governments the world over are enjoying unprecedented support and silence from
opponents to deal decisively with Covid19, attention must be quickly drawn to
the fact that the human race will be worse off if the present measures adopted
globally to defeat it eventually result in consequences with higher fatalities.
This is to say pointedly that deaths from social and security crises that are
certain to follow the worst global recession must not exceed the lives saved
from all the good actions taken now. Should this be the case, it is only right
to begin to think up alternative course or courses of action. There
can be no economic collapse in a fragile world as of today without serious
negative consequences. A greater danger is being foreseen in which Covid19
after being successfully defeated turns out to be at the cost of national and
global means of livelihood. Human
resilience has receded far enough to accommodate all the fear and respect that
Covid19 deserves. Soon enough, that human survival spirit will make people to
ask not what is Covid19 but who is Covid19? People will weigh sitting and dying
slowly, the pain of burying loved ones steadily, and all forms of social evils
breaking down their erstwhile livable communities on one hand, and the pain of
contacting, spreading and by chance surviving Covid19 as they observe all
medical safety advice to resume normal working lives on the other hand. The
Covid19 story is playing out like Mexican wave in a global stadium: It hit
China first, the area jumped and now beginning to sit, then South Korea, Japan,
and the rest of Far East, brushed over the Middle East, now peaking in Europe,
USA feeling its brunt but yet to peak, rest of South America waiting in fear
and apprehension, finally it may end, and end up in Africa assuming it will be
only once around the global stadium. Ultimately,
the virus is a human problem. It is not about capacities of individual
countries to fight it. No country is safe as long as the virus is lurking in
even the poorest and remotest country on Earth. It is now time to concentrate
on global figures because it is strictly Covid19 versus humanity. For
a world that has so suddenly changed, authorities could be wrong thinking that
their economies will easily be restored; some changes will be life-long, some
damages will be permanent. Sea cruises for example will only be for the very
bold and daring, just as airlines will have to rethink economy class seating. Fareed
Zakaria already warned “we are at the early stages of what is going to become a
series of cascading crises reverberating throughout the world and we will not
be able to get back to anything resembling normal life unless the major powers
in the world can find some way to cooperate and manage these problems
together”. He added “the first phase has been the healthcare crisis in the
world’s major economies, the next phase is the economic paralysis, the
magnitude of which we are just beginning to comprehend”. Fareed concluded by
predicting “next come the explosions in the developing world. Expect political
turmoil, refugees, revolutions, crack downs, and maybe terrorism. All of these
may happen on a scale we haven’t seen for decades. If countries like Iraq and Nigeria
explode, the cost in refugees, disease, and terrorism will all make us wish we
had tried harder to manage their fall. The problem we face is broad and global,
but unfortunately the responses are increasingly narrow and parochial”. So
far the major world-acknowledged response to Covid19 is that all together industry
and universities are working towards cure and vaccine, as governments appear to
have limited their strategy to the twin actions of restrictions and very
temporary relief packages. Realization of these facts must certainly motivate
developing at least a new thinking on our options and strategies. One in which
at least economies are firmly isolated or reasonably protected from easily
avoidable chain reactions. In
a fast evolving situation, assumptions and statistics easily fail. However
their use is as necessary as any thoughts given to the problem. With all the
measures rightly taken around the world, governments may be able to limit
spread of Covid19 to about 10 million people if by now total global infections
are just under 1.5 million. A fatality rate of 2.5% means total global deaths
of about 250,000 people. Four months of November 2019 to March 2020 gave about
76,000 deaths. Since the Spanish flu lasted about two years, one may optimistically
assume Covi19 lasts for 1 year taking into account the advance in technology.
So the rough estimates are fairly tolerable. Without lock downs and
restrictions but with social distancing and all forms of medical safety
practiced, thus allowing economies unaffected, the worst infection rate can
reasonably be put at 10%, that is about 780 million people infected globally.
In this case 2% not 2.5% fatality rate will mean 15.6 million deaths from
Covid19 through the entire pandemic. As dreadful as this sounds, it is below
20% of the Spanish flu fatalities. The difference between the 15.6 million and
0.25 million fatalities respectively is the service or benefits of the right
measures taken globally now. This number is 15.35 million fatalities. The
Somali crisis is now in its third decade, Nigerian insurgency and Iraq collapse
in their second decades, Libyan and Syrian crises approaching a decade.
Meanwhile the effects of Liberian, Sierra Leone crises are not entirely over. Social
and security crises resulting from variety of factors can last for very long
periods and continue to destabilize populations. Covid19 on the other hand may
just serve out its term and pass. The
question now to ask, better put, the real and present strategic fact we must
not fail to consider is – will the danger of economies collapsing globally lead
to social problems and security crises that give higher fatalities than the
15,35 million saved through earlier proactive actions? Very few professionals
have the capacity to determine this answer. And when they do, hopefully soon
enough, there may be urgent need for a second approach to fighting Covid19. One
which recognizes its transmissibility and deadliness  and the corresponding early responses of world
governments, but one equally recognizing that sustaining normal human living,
economies and all forms of livelihood save more lives. Lessons
learnt from Covid19 when it is all over will not be complete unless we learn to
build more shock-resistant economies. An index of shock resistivity by any name
should be expected among World Development Indicators data. As
for Nigerian government, its is very instructive to note that the international
community in the context of Covid19 will easily exercise the civil liberties
that Nigerians collectively failed. The question asked to AbdulSalam Nasidi on
Al Jazeera panel discussion is of particular interest. In a panel of 3
discussants, he was singled out and asked to comment on ‘its not how much
money, but how well the money is used”. No satisfactory answer was given. Staggering
questionable amounts already expended just as the Accountant General’s building
gutted by fire. Individuals are mere micro-victims of Covid19 because it
appears more interested in human businesses, systems, and ways of life. In the
process of a genuine global Covid19 war, Nigeria may just be lucky to have a comfortable
deep-seated system of corruption and incompetence corrected. ………………………………………………………………. Senator
Datti Baba-Ahmed, PhD, is Founder of Baze University, Abuja, Nigeria.