 Like many others. I was preparing on
how to confront the lockdown which has just been imposed on Borno. I managed to
escape to my village, Marama, where I knew the consequences of the lockdown may
be less, compared to what I may be exposed to in Maiduguri. I could not join my
family in Abuja either, as they are also battling with their own version of the
lockdown. On checking my messages, my heart sank when I saw the post” Alhaji
Modu Sheriff, the Galadima of Dikwa in Borno State and father of some prominent
people in Borno is dead.” I could imagine what the family may
be going through. Many people, including my humble self would have loved to be
part of the burial and funeral. With the lock down in place: no thanks to the
dreaded COVID 19, that possibility has been ruled out. Even those who may make
it, they may not be spared by the social distancing theory, introduced to curb
the spread of the disease. Expecting it to be a sort of social
gathering and rendezvous for old political foes, the funeral of Baba Galadima
is coming at the wrong time. I would have loved to be there, so I can pay my
respect and condole members of the family: most of whom are still my very good
friends. Seeing that I will not be amongst those who will lay the wreath at his
tomb or sing a dirge for my friends, I chose to pay my tribute in this way. I met Alhaji Modu Sheriff, the
Galadima of Dikwa and patriarch of the Sheriff family only a few times, in the
company of, Mala Kachallah, Mala Alamai and Galadima Mai Dunoma; all of blessed
memory. They were all businessmen, doing very well in their individual
businesses. When Mala Kachallah became the Governor of Borno State and invited
me for talks at the Government lodge in Abuja, I met him again in the company
of the same fellows. After I became Mala Kachalla’s spokesman, by which time
his son Ali Modu Shjeriff was just drawing the political battle line with Mala
Kachallah, I rarely saw him with Mala Kachallah. In the heat of the political
quarrels between him and Senator Ali Modu Sheriff, his eventual successor in
office, my late boss, Mala Kachallah, told me never to drag his friend and
confident Alhaji  Modu Sheriff, the Galadima of Dikwa Emirate in Borno
State, into the fray. He told me Baba Galadima as he was fondly called and the
late Mala Alamai were his bosom friends and nothing could ever make them
denounce each other, no matter their perceived opinions about issues. Even if my boss, Mala Kachallah had
not cautioned me, I would not have found any cause nor justification to fault
Baba Galadima, even when I knew the roles he played in shaping and reshaping
the political direction of his son, Senator Ali Modu Sheriff. As Mala
Kachallah’s chief image maker, I was determined to use all available arsenals
at my disposal to defend him in the face of the spurious allegations Ali
Sheriff leveled against him in the wee days of his administration and in the
early days of Sheriff’s government. By then, I was ready to attack
anybody who alleged anything bad against my boss. Very often, Mala Kachallah
would ask me to mellow down, but my passion to prove his virtues was so
overwhelming. Despite that, I avoided dragging the family of Baba Galadima into
the battle line. The late Kachallah encouraged me to visit Baba Galadima
regularly, which I did. And every time I met him, he told me the story of their
several escapades with Mala Kachallah. He equally told me, that nothing could
separate him from Kachallah; not even the political disagreement with his son
Ali Sheriff. Before Mala Kachallah died, he told
me, in the presence of his deputy then, Ali Abubakar Jatau that he had nothing
against Ali Modu Sheriff, and if for any reason there arose the need for us to
work together, I should know that he would not be against it. By a twist of
fate, I found myself working with Ali Modu Sheriff as his Commissioner for Information.
Paradoxically, I never met Baba Galadima even for once during the period I
served under his son, yet I knew he was the power behind the throne. Anybody who needed anything from Ali
Modu Sheriff as governor of Borno State could have gotten it easier going
through his father Baba Galadima or his wife, Fatimah Ali Sheriff. He was the
virtual oracle for all political outings and commanded tremendous respect
amongst party stalwarts and top government officials. I never went to him not
because I did not respect or admire him as the clearing house, but because I
felt it was dangerous for me entangling myself in the political web around him
at that time. Baba Galadima was so powerful and
influential on Ali Sheriff’s Government, to the effect that, when the idea of
breaking the once powerful Dikwa Emirate into two was first muted, so many
people thought he was going to be crowned the Shehu of Dikwa. It was not until
long after another was named as the Shehu, that the public got to know that he
actually declined the offer and chose to remain a loyal title holder of
Galadima of the second most powerful emirate in Borno. I did not meet Baba Galadima again
until Ali Modu Sheriff left Government and attempted to muscle his successor,
resulting into his quarrel with his successor, Senator Kashim Shettima. Yusuf
Adamu, who used to be very close to the family took me to the Galadima of Dikwa
in Abuja. After the necessary homages, he gave me one hundred thousand naira to
fuel my car. It meant a lot to me then, because nothing was forthcoming from
Ali Sheriff. I did not find it necessary to seek for Baba Galadima again,
because by then, the Sheriff family itself was torn between the two key players
and I knew he loved the children equally. I did not want my relationship with
Ali Sheriff to rub off on his relationship with Ali’s siblings. By then, I had
already pitched tent with Sheriff and absconded my office, making me the first
victim of the political battle of that time. Baba Galadima was always on hand to
offer useful suggestions on how those of us around Ali Modu Sheriff could
handle issues. He suggested many ways Sheriff could avoid the political
pitfalls he fell into before and after leaving office as Governor. On several
occasions we had consulted him in our battles for the soul of the PDP. He
struggled always to keep his family in one shape, even when there were threats
of political brinkmanship. He was the unseen hand behind many of the success
Ali Sheriff made and was the oracle he always consulted. The business community will miss
him, the political space will shake without him, but more importantly, now that
he is no more, coupled with Ali Sheriff’s declining political fortunes, Baba
Galadima’s absence may leave a vacuum in Ali Sheriff political permutations
against 2023 and indeed the future. Inuwa Bwala was two times
Commissioner for Home Affairs and Information and Culture, Borno State.