 OUR DEAR GOVERNORS,  IT IS NOT YET TIME TO START LIFTING THE BAN ON PUBLIC GATHERINGS INCLUDING MARKETS, MOSQUES AND CHURCHES The Health Sector Reform
Coalition receives with shock, concern and fear, the lifting of bans on some
gatherings including Friday prayers and Easter services, by some states. The
lockdown in the FCT, Lagos and similar decision by some governors across the
country was a welcome development. It is important for containing the spread of
COVID-19 (Coronavirus), avoiding the high number of deaths that might follow
and the disastrous effects on the health system and economy, as we are seeing
with countries like US, Italy, Spain, UK, amongst others. HSRC with its membership of
over 100 non-governmental actors, working to improve health care and
development across every state in Nigeria, recognises and respects the
importance of worship and religious celebrations to us Nigerians. We
acknowledge and value the role of religious leaders and faith-based
organizations in providing spiritual support through faith for their followers
in a healthy and safe environment. HSRC further appreciates the socio-economic
difficulties being faced by our people over the lockdown across the country. Unfortunately, options are
limited for now in the best ways to fight the spread. Scientific evidence and
experience from developed and developing countries reinforce that avoiding
crowd, physical distancing, handwashing and respiratory hygiene are still the
best ways to prevent the spread and associated deaths. With the high number of people
living in poverty, high prevalence of chronic diseases such as hypertension and
diabetes (underlying diseases) and very weak health systems, it will be
catastrophic if the virus spreads widely in Nigeria. Data from the WHO and Johns
Hopkins shows that 1.6 million people have tested positive and more than 95
thousand have died from COVID-19 between December 2019 to April 9, 2020. While
majority of infections and deaths have been in developed countries, both
infections and deaths are also rising in Africa. Cases in Nigeria have
multiplied from one to 288 in six weeks with seven deaths. Number of states
with established cases have risen from one to 17 within the same period. Trends from other countries
shows that without drastic measures such as maintaining lockdowns and
distancing, the numbers can easily rise exponentially over a short time.
Between February 27 and March 27, the US went from 54 to 100,522 cases while
Italy went from 593 to 66,414 in one month! Because our testing is grossly
inadequate, the true numbers of cases in Nigeria may be hidden. It is highly
likely that community spread is happening because up to 85% of the infected may
be asymptomatic yet capable of transmitting the virus. Our containment is still
in the nascent stage, this is not the time to relax our guard. The couple of
weeks are very critical in containing an upsurge in the number of confirmed
cases. As the Health Sector Reform
Coalition of Nigeria, we: A. Implore our governors to
cancel all plans or reverse the directives to lift the ban on religious and
other gatherings until the NCDC and Federal Ministry of Health advise otherwise
– No matter the pressure, this is not the time for populism. B. Call on the federal
government and state governments to increase the delivery of economic
mitigation packages to households and individuals that are in need, to reduce
the pressure on people to go out for their daily living. C. Ask all Nigerians to PLEASE continue to listen to the
advice of health experts represented by NCDC and WHO at this critical time.
Nothing is more important than staying alive Furthermore, we need to
remind ourselves of the following: i. COVID-19 (Coronavirus) does
not go to sleep at night, market days, Fridays or Sundays ii. Infected people without any
symptoms can still transmit the virus iii. Over 2500 infections in
France was linked to a single religious gathering while about 230 infections in
South Korea were linked to a religious group where members continued gathering iv. Crowd gathering should be
avoided, and at all time maintain at least 2 m or 6 feet or two arm’s length of
distance between people v. Religious and faith
institutions are encouraged to explore means of conducting faith activities
remotely/virtually (as long as required) and provide psychosocial and mental
health support and resilience vi. Cloth face masks might help
reduce the spread by those who are infected but does not fully protect healthy
people from getting infected, so continue to practice hand washing, respiratory
hygiene, physical distancing and crowd avoidance even when wearing a face mask vii. Clean/disinfectant
surfaces such as doorknobs, handles, to remove the virus viii. Actively promote
attitudes and behaviours to uphold the dignity and rights of all people, and counter
all forms stigma and discrimination associated with the virus ix. Even if you have good
immunity, you can spread it to children, the elderly and other family members
who are vulnerable and more likely to die from COVID-19 x. States that currently have
zero recorded cases are still not safe and closing state borders is not enough As the custodian of power in
the state, necessity is placed on the governors to make the right decision that
will protect the citizens. This is the time to make that difficult sacrifice to
protect our future. Our governors and other political leaders should be seen to
be leading. Nigerian, please stay at home and stay alive!!! Signed: Dcn. Mike Egboh and
Dr. Chizoba Wonodi (HSRC COVID-19 Response Task
Team Co-chairs)