 President Muhammadu Buhari on Sunday
called Gov. Babagana Zulum of Borno and some leading traditional rulers of the
State to offer his condolences over the death of his Chief of Staff, Malam Abba
Kyari, a native of the state. Malam Garba Shehu, the President’s
Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, in a statement in Abuja, said
the president also condoled with the District Head of Banki and elder brother
of late Chief of Staff, Zanna Baba Shehu Arjinoma. In the telephone conversation,
according to Shehu, the President commiserated with the head of the family and
members; Shehu of Borno, Shehu Abubakar Ibn Umar Garbai El-Kanemi; Shehu of
Bama, Shehu Kyari ibn Umar ibn Ibrahim Elkenemi. President Buhari described the death
of the late Chief of Staff as a shared loss, and urged the government and
people of Borno, members of the family to take solace in the fact that Malam
Kyari lived a life worthy of example. He said, “Abba was the very best of
us. He was made of the stuff that makes Nigeria great.” The presidential aide revealed that
the President had continued to receive messages from far and wide, condoling
him and the nation following the demise of his Chief of Staff. ”Among those who called or sent
letters are: former President, General Ibrahim Babangida; Governors of Rivers,
Nyesom Wike, Enugu, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, Yobe, Mai Mala Buni, Taraba, Darius
Dickson Ishaku and the President’s classmates, who enrolled in 1953 into the
Katsina Middle School, through their leader Sen. Abba Ali. ”The President also received
messages from the President of the United Nations General Assembly, Prof.
Tijjani Muhammad-Bande, the global network of Editors, the International Press
Institute (IPI) and the President of the Nigerian Guild of Editors, Mustapha
Isa, the Emir of Kano, Aminu Ado Bayero,” he said. Shehu further disclosed that the
patriarch of the Dantata family in Kano, Alhaji Aminu Dantata, the leader of
the Izala religious movement in Nigeria, Alhaji Bala Lau: renowned Kano
preacher, Tijjani Kalarawi and Deputy Majority Leader of the Senate, Bala Ibn
Na’Allah also condoled with the Nigerian leader. Others, who sent their messages of
condolences included the Nigerian Ambassador to the USA, Justice Sylvanus
Nsofor, Emir of Anka, Alhaji Attahiru Ahmad and Sen. Umaru Kurfi. The Nigeria’s Turkish partner in the
Defence Industries Corporation, Burhan Karabult and Prof. James Momoh, Vice
Chairman of the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission also condoled with
the president over the death of  his chief  of staff.(NAN)