 In continuation of the Chief of Army
Staff (COAS), Lt Gen Tukur Yusufu Buratai’s tour of troops’ locations in the
north east theatre of Operation, the COAS has assured the troops of Operation
Harbin Kunama IV of the provision of additional military hardwares and
platforms to enhance the speedy completion of the ongoing war against
insurgency in the North East. The troops are on training at the
army special super camp at Ngamdu. He directed them to take their training
seriously in preparation for the speedy conclusion of the war against
insurgency in Nigeria. Gen Buratai gave the assurance while
addressing troops at Army Special Forces Super Camp Ngamdu in Kaga Local
Government Area of Borno on Thursday the 9th of April 2020. He said that the Nigerian Army had
taken delivery of more equipment and platforms that would be deployed to
various theaters of operations across the country. The COAS directed the troops to take
advantage of their new additional equipment and platforms to hasten the final
defeat of insurgency in Nigeria. He further enjoined the officers and
men to ensure that the recent setback experienced does not deter them from
defeating the terrorists and assured them that with more commitment, courage
and resilience insurgency will soon be history in our country. According to him, “as you all
know, we have been on this ground for long and I expect us to remain resolute,
selflessly committed and push for the total defeat of the Insurgents in the
coming days”. “I assure you that what is remaining
is very small but it will require us to put more efforts, more determination
and more courage to complete the remaining part of the battle soon”. Recall that of recent, we had
setbacks which must not be allowed to happen again, – We will not allow any further
casualties both in men and equipment. Recall that the News Agency of
Nigeria (NAN) reports that Gen Buratai has been on operational tour to various
troops’ locations in the North East theatre of operation since on Monday the
6th of April 2020. He also visited Army Super Camp 1 at
Molai and the Special Forces Super Camp 12 in Chabbol near Maiduguri on
Wednesday. COAS was also at the Forward
Operating Base at Alau Dam, outskirts of Maiduguri and also personally led the
troops on reconnaissance around Mairimari Forest located southeast of Tamsu
Ngamdua in Mafa Local Government Area of Borno State. Similarly, the COAS went round
Maigilari Forest  in the east of  Tamsu Ngamdua in the southwest of
the same Mafa Local Government Area. These areas are generally seen as the
routes and directions of approach into Maiduguri by the Boko Haram/ISWAP
Criminals.(NAN)