Determined to
break the jinx of abandoned projects in the Niger Delta areas and series of
corruption allegations against contractors handling its projects, the Acting
Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, Prof
Kemebradikumo Pondei, has called on the Economic and Financial Crimes
Commission, EFCC, to assist the firms contracted for the forensic audit of the
NDDC by the federal government. Pondei made
the request on Tuesday, April 21, 2020, during a courtesy visit to the Port
Harcourt Zonal office of the EFCC. The NDDC
boss said, “The expertise of EFCC is needed for the Commission to look at cases
of contract awarded and paid for but not executed. We have reports of projects
awarded and paid for but not executed. There is need for us to work on these
cases”. The Niger
Delta area, comprising all the South- South States, have been reeling under the
weight of abandoned projects or poorly- executed contracts for a long time. The
NDDC boss noted that petitions, both genuine and frivolous, from communities on
abandoned projects, have become a source of distraction to the management
committee. He, therefore, requested for a status report on all NDDC cases being
investigated by the EFCC. In his
response, the EFCC Zonal Head, Mr Musa Usman Imam, described the visit by the
NDDC team as remarkable, noting that it will go a long way in helping to bridge
whatever gaps exist between the two agencies. Congratulating
the interim management committee on its appointment, Imam pointed out that its
assignment appears daunting in the face of extreme negative public perception
of the agency. He noted
that when he assumed office as Zonal Head in Port Harcourt, he believed that
NDDC was next to oil bunkering when it comes to corruption. “I believe
government is mindful of this negative image which is the reason for the
appointment of the interim management committee and the institution of a
forensic audit”, Imam said, urging the management to strive to change the
perception by delivering on the mandate given to it by Mr. President. “I want to
assure you that the Commission is willing to support you through the
investigation of any alleged case of fraud. What we require from you is
willingness to share information and trust in our ability to handle such cases
with dispatch”, he stated.