 By Chimezie Godfrey The Say No Campaign has urged the
Minister of State, FCT, Dr Ramatu Aliyu and her team to ensure compliance with
the NCDC regulations in their subsequent distribution of palliatives in the
FCT, as the previous distribution negates social distancing. In a statement on Thursday, the
Co-convener, Say No Campaign, Eze Nwangwu  commended the effort of the FCT
Administration in the distribution of the palliatives but faulted the process
of distribution, which disregards social distancing. “The three days distribution of
palliative items of rice, semovita, sachets of tomato paste, Maggi and garri to
the resident of Kwali area council of the Federal Capital Territory has ended
today, Thursday, 23rd April 2020, with most households reported to have
received their share. “Say No Campaign through its
anticorruption network, Kwali, who have monitored the entire process reported
that while most households were given equal share of the palliative items, the
married, aged and people living with disabilities were prioritized in the
distribution process. “Reports we have gathered
indicated that residents were largely satisfied with the items received as well
as the modalities for sharing. “However, as community members
across the 10 wards were instructed to remain in their respective homes while
the items will be delivered to them, there were reports of people gathering in
clusters on the streets receiving these food items. “One lingering challenge that
has continued to mar the process of distribution from Abaji and now Kwali
remains the disregard for social distancing. “Both the distributors and
beneficiaries of the relief materials, in some places, clustered to receive
their items,” he said. Nwangwu said there is a need for the
FCTA to consciously avoid crowd and clumsy methods of distribution that
encourage individuals clustering around delivery trucks or distributing
officials. He pointed out that the FCTA need to
adequately coordinate and strategise with the chairmen of the area council and
their ward councilors  for a more effective house to house distribution in
other to avoid ‘mobile sharing’, adding that the beneficiary lists earlier
collected across all wards can be a good starting point at ensuring an orderly
distribution. “While distribution will
continue in other area councils of the FCT, as announced by the FCTA minister
of state, Dr. Ramatu Aliyu, we urge the Minister and her team  to improve
on the methods adopted in Kwali to ensure adequate compliance with the Nigeria
Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) regulations in other to avoid facilitating
further spread of the Corona virus, thereby undermining the gains of the
lockdown,” he said.