 Polaris
Bank has paid tribute to health workers in Nigeria and across the world even as
the world commemorates the 2020 World Health Day. This
year’s event is coming on the heels of the breakout of the  coronavirus
pandemic that is currently ravaging the world with its attendant effect on the
health and wellbeing of the citizens across the world. The
World Health Day which is celebrated on the 7th of April every year has as its
theme for 2020, ‘Galvanizing Support for Nurses and Midwives’ as well, as
recognizing the vital role these health workers play in fostering global health
and wellness. World
Health Day is set aside to honor the contribution of nurses and midwives,
recognizing their vital role in keeping the world healthy. Health workers are
at the frontlines of the COVID-19 response, putting their health at risk to
protect the global community. Since
nurses and midwives comprise more than two-thirds of the health workforce
according to the World Health Organization (WHO), they are critical in
responding to health needs for all settings and across the lifespan, and as
such, the World Health Day presents an opportunity to highlight the importance
of nurses and midwives around the world. Speaking
on the impact of the role of health workers to global health and wellness, the
Managing Director/CEO of Polaris Bank, Mr. Tokunbo Abiru, noted that, “The
efforts and contributions of nurses, midwives and other health workers who are
out there working tirelessly to contain the spread of the coronavirus cannot be
over-emphasized as they have significantly reduced mortality rate and saved
many lives in the process.” Mr.
Abiru explained further that: “Since the world health day promotes healthy
living through a healthy lifestyle and hygienic living, which are the most
efficient ways to control the risk of several diseases including COVID-19,
serious commitment on the part of the individual is required to flatten the
curve of the pandemic”. He further noted that Polaris Bank is committed to the
safety of staff and customers and has  ensured strict adherence to 
government’s directives concerning social distancing and good hygiene in all
our its business locations across the country. The
Chief Executive Officer advised that people should take a pledge and make all
necessary changes in their lifestyles for a healthy life noting that special
attention should be paid to all precautionary measures stipulated by
governments and relevant agencies to promote global health and wellness thereby
containing the spread of COVID-19. It
would be recalled that Polaris Bank recently joined hands with Nigeria’s
private sector coalition which raised N15.3bn to fight COVID-19. Polaris
Bank is a future-determining Bank committed to the delivery of
industry-defining products, and services, across all the sectors of the
Nigerian economy.