 By
Ibrahim Mohammed As the country and other parts of the world fight to contain the novel Coronavirus pandemic which has seized media headlines, sudden fire outbreaks in Nigeria remain a recurring decimal and a majors source of public anxiety. It
would be recalled that in recent times Treasury House, the building housing the
Office of the Accountant-General of the federation was gutted by fire in Abuja
the nation’s capital. Again, there was fire outbreak at the Corporate Affairs
Commission (CAC), Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) head offices
in the city. All the incidents happened on April 8, 15 and 17 respectively.  Even on Tuesday April 21, CBN staff averted a
fire outbreak at the Jos branch of the apex bank. An
investigation by Newsdiaryonline using statistics from the Federal Fire
Service, Data Collation Centre Abuja, has revealed a disturbing trend of fire
incidents in the country. The data for eight years covered infernos that
occurred in ‘‘public building/government quarters, private dwellings,
educational establishments, shops, clubs, hotels, restaurants and
factories/banks. Others
include: petrol stations/open ground, transformer, oil/gas installations, timber
sheds, automobiles, markets and plane crash.’’ The
data indicated that of the 3, 672 incidents of infernos, private dwelling
places was worst hit with 1,358 cases, public buildings/government quarters
691. Besides,
the data also  indicated that 283 infernos
occurred at petrol stations, while 107 incidents involved oil/gas
installations. During
the period under review (from January to December 2010, 2011, 2013, 2014, 2015,
2016, 2017 and 2018) electrical equipment accounted for 308 causes of fire, as
well as 575 incidents through electrical sparks according to the information
obtained from data collation Centre. The
data indicated that 902 persons were killed, property worth N100, 855,608 were
destroyed in various infernos nationwide and the cause of 1,688 incidents were
unknown. Also, 40 fires were recorded in factories/banks, clubs, hotels,
restaurants had 52 fire incidents amongst other cases of infernos in Nigeria. Incidents
of fire outbreaks in government buildings are not new occurrences and have
always been viewed by many as induced to destroy documents that can be used to
unearth widespread corruption in government circles. Newsdiaryonline reports
that various officials denied any loss of vital documents in the latest incidents
involving government establishments. Newsdiaryonline,
recalls that prior to their privatization, the head offices of former
state-owned telecoms giant, NITEL and power company, NEPA were gutted by what
observers often dubbed as ‘‘mysterious fire.’’ During their heydays, both
agencies  were  renowned for being grossly corrupt. The
Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, has said that fire incidents have
been high this year in the country. He was speaking on February 13, during the
passing out ceremony of 5th Cadets and commissioning of modern firefighting
trucks, at the National Fire Academy, Sheda, Kwali Area Council of the Federal
Capital Territory (FCT) Abuja. Aregbesola,
noted at the event that “fire prevention and control are the cardinal
responsibility of government.’’ But the government  may not be doing well going by fire outbreaks
involving government agencies of late. “Experience
has shown that markets are more susceptible to fire outbreaks and the effects
there are usually devastating leading to anguish, pains and unquantifiable loss
of goods and property,’’ he emphasised. In
January this year Kaduna State Fire Service recorded 87 outbreaks and seven
deaths, says Mr Paul Aboi, Director of the service in the state. Aboi,
who said the fire outbreaks were recorded in Kaduna, Zaria and Kafanchan,
lamented that the outbreaks were caused mainly by carelessness in the use of
electrical appliances and ignorance in handling naked fires. In a
bid to tackle the menace of fire outbreaks in Nigeria, the Federal Fire Service
said it has increased public awareness in private and public places such as
schools, markets etc, using both electronic and print media to send out public
safety awareness messages. The
Service has also expanded its presence to 12 zones (comprising 3 states in
each), in addition procured additional modern firefighting trucks and deployed
them to the various zones. The
Service advises that members of the public should be safety conscious and
comply with fire prevention measures. ‘‘They should try to put in place first
aid firefighting equipment like fire alarms, smoke detectors, sprinkler system,
fire extinguishers. They should have the Fire Service emergency numbers
08032003557/122 and always call the numbers immediately the notice
fire.’’ The
public should always give way to emergency vehicles or fire trucks responding
to emergencies. They should restrain from attacking firefighters at fire scene
but allow firefighters do their work at fire scenes Experts
say there are five classes of fires, A, B, C, D and K. Being aware of them is a
sure way to purchase safety equipment that will be effective in the event of
fire outbreak. With
the endless string of fire outbreaks, governments at all levels need to  intensify awareness campaigns among the
citizens to avert the recurrent fire incidents which have killed many and
destroyed sources of livelihood across Nigeria.