  The death of Mallam Abba Kyari, the
powerful chief of staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, has generated a mixed
reaction of grieving and gloating from the Nigerian people. His death at 67
from the deadly corona virus makes Abba Kyari the most senior Nigerian
government official to have died from the global Covid-19 pandemic so far. Expectedly,
his close cycle of family, friends and associates are mourning a man they
variously describe with such attributes as good, loyal and patriotic. Not
unexpectedly, far from mourning the late Abba Kyari, some other Nigerians
outside of his close cycle of family and friends are gloating if not
celebrating the death of a man they consider their biggest problem in the five
years of the Buhari administration. Born in Borno state, north east Nigeria in
1952 and educated at the universities of Warwick and Cambridge in the United
Kingdom as well as Harvard University in the United States, Mallam Abba Kyari
had an accomplished career as a journalist, lawyer, banker and a public
administrator before his appointment as Aso Villa Chief of Staff. An ethnic
Shuwa Arab and a devout Muslim, Mallam Abba Kyari will emerge over the years as
a prominent northern Nigerian intellectual and politician, who along with some
other leading members of the region’s influential conservative intellectual
community such as Ahmed Joda, Mamman Daura, Isa Ismaila Funtua, Sam Nda Isaiah
and Adamu Adamu, helped galvanized the conservative Muslim north; that largest
democratic demography in Nigeria behind President Buhari’s presidential
ambition. Having
distinguished themselves as ardent champions and defenders of northern Nigeria
interests against the intellectually hostile South, Mallam Abba Kyari and
others like him had earned the trust and confidence of the people enough to
enable them secure for President Buhari, a strong political support base in
Nigeria’s largest voting bloc beginning from his first attempt in the 2003
presidential election. The appointment of Mallam Abba Kyari as the Aso Villa
Chief of Staff by President Buhari, following his election in 2015 after four
attempts can be considered a reward for loyalty, fidelity and unwavering
commitment to the Buhari presidential project, which began in 2003 and got
actualized 12 years later. To his family, friends and associates, the
late Mall Abba Kyari was a good person and a hero of some sorts whose
immeasurable personal contributions in their individual private lives evoked
lofty tributes of fond memories they will forever remember him for. To many
others who were not privileged to be his family or friends and who knew him
only in his official capacity as chief of staff, Mall Abba Kyari was a
nightmarish villain and a meddlesome interloping power monger who will be
remembered for his excessive  exercise of
enormous power for mostly sectional and selfish ends. However, Mallam Abba Kyari was neither that
villain who was believed by many to be Nigeria’s biggest problem in the last
five years nor was he that patriot his close family, friends and associates are
trying hard to make Nigerians believe he was. For someone who was praised for
his loyalty to his principal, Mallam Abba Kyari’s numerous instances of
administrative incongruity as Aso Villa Chief of Staff were only a reflection of
the incoherent policies and mostly ineffectual programmes of the Buhari
administration. Just as his often cold public demeanour was a reflection of
President Buhari’s body language so was his hawkish politics a personification
of his Principal’s overtly Machiavellian tendencies. President Buhari’s failure to sanction his
former chief of staff for his numerous administrative intransigencies and
actually went ahead to renew his appointment following his re-election in 2019
is an indication that Mallam Abba Kyari was serving at the pleasure and
satisfaction of his Principal. To put it simply; Mallam Abba Kyari was not
Nigeria’s problem as he was only exercising delegated powers and authority by
President Buhari. Therefore, the gloating over his death by some people is a
misplaced and misdirected one because his death will not change the current
precarious Nigerian situation. However, in as much as Mallam Abba Kyari
was not the problem of Nigeria, attempts by his acolytes and associates to
impress it upon Nigerians that he was a forthright patriot who served Nigeria
selflessly is a hard sell narrative that gives a strange meaning to the very
concept of patriotism. Whereas, President Buhari inadvertently set him up as a
fall guy for his administration when he directed his cabinet members to channel
all correspondences to him through the office of the Aso Villa Chief of Staff,
Mallam Abba Kyari consciously made himself part of the problem of Nigeria when
he accepted a lead role in an arrangement that can best be described as an
administrative aberration. The directive by President Buhari to his cabinet to report
to the unelected office of the Aso villa chief of staff; an office that is not
recognized by the constitution diminishes the role of ministers and undermines the
constitutional basis of the equality of states in Federal Executive Council.
That Mallam Abba Kyari from Borno state accepted the role of the ultimate gate
keeper in an administrative aberration as the all-powerful Aso Villa Chief of
Staff to whom constitutionally recognized ministers from the 36 states of
federation will report and not directly to the elected President marked him as
an unpatriotic meddlesome usurper of executive power. Unfortunately, Mallam Abba Kyari will be
remembered less for his goodness, loyalty and commitment to a few of his
family, friends and associates but more for his legacies in public service by
Nigeria’s 200 million people as the most powerful government official in charge
of their affairs and destiny for five years. For his refusal to walk away from
a thoroughly failed government, Mallam Abba Kyari will be remembered more for
lending his enormous intellectual credentials to the clueless, ineffectual,
inept, divisive, sectional, nepotistic, corrupt and underperforming
administration of President Buhari, which reduced Nigeria in the five years he
was in charge as Aso Villa Chief of Staff, to one of the most corrupt, poverty
stricken and terrorized country on earth. President Buhari’s glowing tributes on a
man he describes as the ‘’Best’’ and a loyal friend of over 40 years, is a clear
indication that Mallam Abba Kyari performed his duties as Aso Villa Chief of
Staff to his satisfaction notwithstanding the dissatisfaction of many Nigerians
who regarded him as the main villain in the plot of Nigeria’s governance
tragedy in the last five years. The death of Mallam Abba Kyari will not change
anything in the current situation of Nigeria except his former principal;
President Buhari changes his under achieving style of leadership. In the
absence of a clear vision for a better Nigeria, Aso Villa Chief of Staff, Mallam
Abba Kyari was only a chief executioner and fixer in chief of President
Buhari’s mission of Arewa dominance of the Nigerian state. And with no indication yet that President
Buhari is willing to deviate from his entrenched pattern of divisiveness and misrule
anytime soon, those Nigerians gloating over the death of Mallam Abba Kyari
should brace up for another ‘’Abba Kyari’’ in the remaining three years of the
current administration. May Allah forgive his shortcomings and admit Mallam
Abba Kyari into Paradise. Ameen!