 The
Edo State Government, as part of strategies to check the spread of
coronavirus (COVID-19) in the state, is set to commence mobile COVID-19
screenings and active case search activities across the 12 wards in
Oredo Local Government Area (LGA). Commissioner for Health, Dr.
Patrick Okundia, who disclosed this to journalists in Benin City, said
the exercise will complement screening activities already ongoing in
designated Primary Healthcare Centres (PHCs) and private hospitals in
Oredo LGA. Okundia said the exercise will be scaled up to other
LGAs, noting that the Edo State Government is resolute and committed to
ending the COVID-19 pandemic in all communities across the state. The
designated PHCs for screening include Aruogba PHC, along Aruogba road,
off Airport road; Oko PHC, along Airport road, before Ogba Zoo; Ugbor
PHC, along Ugbor village road, before Ugbor primary school; Oredo PHC,
along Sapele road, by Ministry of Works; New Benin PHC, off Upper
Lawani, opposite Edokpolor Secondary School and  Ikpema PHC,  Off
Igbesamwan Road, beside Apostolic Church. The private health
facilities are St. Philomena Hospital, at Dawson road, Benin City; Faith
Mediplex, Airport Road; Bethel Faith Hospital, by Christ Embassy,
Ekehuan Road, and Safe Haven Hospitals, along Eheneden Road adjacent to
Baptist Church. The Commissioner urged residents to cooperate
with the COVID-19 screening teams and seize the opportunity of the
ongoing massive screening across the state to ascertain their status,
noting that early detection and treatment increases the chances of
survival. He said, “The Edo State Government will in the next few
days commence mobile COVID-19 screenings and active case search
activities across the 12 wards in Oredo LGA. This will eventually be
scaled up to other local government areas across the state. “We
encourage you to cooperate with the COVID-19 Screening teams in your
respective communities. Rest assured Edo State Government is resolute
and committed to ending the COVID-19 pandemic in our communities in no
distant time” Okundia added, “As government intensifies measures
to curtail the spread of COVID-19 in our state, we urge all residents to
observe all precautionary measures and comply with government’s
directives to fight this infectious disease. Wash your hands regularly
with soap under running water and use alcohol-based sanitizers. Stay at
home; but if you must go out, wear facemasks and avoid gatherings of
more than 20 persons.