 In a bid to ensure that the toll-free 3-digit National Emergency
Number, 112, is being put to effective use in this critical time of Coronavirus
pandemic, and national objective of enhancing security of lives and properties,
the Executive Vice Chairman (EVC) of the Nigerian Communications Commission
(NCC), Prof. Umar Danbatta, paid surprise visits to the Emergency
Communications Centres (ECC) in Kano and Kaduna yesterday. Danbatta’s visits were informed by his realization that, with
Coronavirus spreading across the globe and more people living in isolation, the
NCC’s 112 toll-free number could play a crucial role of providing effective
alternatives for people to reach out to relevant agencies with a view to
securing   help in times of emergency. During his visits to the two centres, Danbatta had extensive
interactions with the personnel on ground, as he asked various questions
bordering on the in-coming call traffic volume and how the calls are
effectively dispatched to various emergency response agencies (ERA) connected
to the centres for prompt response, especially the Nigeria Centre for Disease
Control NCDC). He also took his time to find out if the centres were facing any
challenges that needed to be addressed for their optimum efficiencies and
effectiveness towards delivering on their mandates. The EVC urged the personnel on duty at the two ECCs to see their
work as national assignments on saving the lives of fellow Nigerians in terms
of emergencies. “As you all area aware, the country in on lockdown in Lagos,
Ogun States and FCT, and I will therefore enjoin you to always ensure you don’t
miss any call that comes into the centre. You will also be expected to ensure
prompt dispatch of calls received to the relevant emergency response
agencies,  so that there is no any dereliction of duty that will result in
loss of lives and property to our fellow Nigerians, who may even be our close
relatives,” Danbatta urged the excited personnel. Speaking further, the NNC boss advised the personnel to observe
sanitary measures like hand washing and social distancing at the centres. In both Kaduna and Kano centres, the managers told the EVC that
they had been receiving coronavirus-related calls. The personnel also appreciated the visits of the EVC to the
centres which they variously described as ‘a morale booster’, ‘a good
regulatory oversight’ and ‘an encouragement’ for them to be more committed to
their assigned roles at the emergency communications centres. As NCC project mandated in the Nigerian Communications Act
(NCA), 2003, the implementation of the ECC got a boost when Danbatta became the
country’s telecoms regulator-in-chief in 2015. Till date, 18 of the centres have been built and are operational
in all 17 states of the Federation and the Federal Capital Territory. Each of the ECCs is equipped with 11 Workstations (10 for call
taking and one for the Supervisor); a server system that receives and processes
112-calls from members of the public and then dispatches the calls to the
appropriate Agency that has responsibility to attend to the specific emergency. Facilities in the ECC also include power supply mix consisting
of public power supply from the national grid, two (2) units of 100KVA
generators; and two (2) units of 20KVA UPS powered by 160 units of 100AH
inverter batteries and a 10KVA UPS powered by 16 units of 100AH inverter
batteries; and six dispatch workstations for the Response Agencies. The significance of the ECC project was underscored by President
Muhammadu Buhari, on March 19, 2020, when unveiled the 112 National Emergency
Number and ECC for the FCT, describing it as a project that will complement the
Federal Government’s efforts enhancing the security of lives and property in
the country. Today, states, relevant agencies of governments and individuals
Nigerians are making use of the 112 Number to seek help during emergencies, and
more importantly, at this critical time when government is working
round-the-clock to curtail the spread of  COVID-19 pandemic. In December last year, the NCC and Danbatta received separate
awards of ‘Corporate Social responsibility Award in Security and Emergency
Management’ and ‘Nigeria’s Goodwill Ambassador for Security and Emergency
Management’ respectively during first-ever Security and Emergency Management
Awards (SAEMA 2019) held in Abuja by the Emergency Digest, in conjunction with
the Centre for Crisis Communication (CCC). The Commission also got inducted into the membership of the
Forum of Spokespersons of Security and Response Agencies (FOSSRA) in February,
2020, in recognitions of the critical role the ECC is playing in securing
safety of lives and properties of Nigerians.