 The Chairman,
Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC),
Prof. Bolaji Owasanoye, has been appointed a member of the United Nations
High-Level Panel on International Financial Accountability, Transparency and
Integrity for Achieving the 2030 Agenda (FACTI Panel). Launched on 2nd
March, 2020, the FACTI Panel was established jointly by H.E. Tijjani
Muhammad-Bande, the President of the United Nations General Assembly, and H.E.
Mona Juul, the President of the United Nations Economic and Social
Council,  against the background of escalating issues of tax evasion,
tax avoidance, money laundering and corruption, especially in an era of digital
economic activity; and the pressing need for the world to put more effort into
preventing financial crimes, creating level playing fields, ending financial
opacity, and mobilizing resources equitably. The Panel is tasked
with making recommendations to address gaps, impediments and vulnerabilities in
international institutional and legal frameworks related to financial
accountability, transparency and integrity in the global financial system,
which according to Panel Co-Chair, Dr. Dalia Grybauskaitė, former President of
Lithuania, ‘is overdue for changes’. Dr. Grybauskaitė made
this assertion during the recent inaugural meeting of the Panel, which was held
on a virtual platform due to COVID-19 related restrictions. Underscoring the
significance of the Panel’s task in facilitating such
changes,  Co-Chair, Dr. Ibrahim Mayaki, former Prime Minister of
Niger, stated during the meeting that “In this time of global crisis instigated
by the COVID-19 pandemic, the importance of robust, reliable public resources
becomes especially clear. I look forward to working closely with fellow Panel
members to make recommendations toward a less porous, more equitable financial
system.” In addition, Dr.
Grybauskaitė  expressed the hope that  the FACTI Panel
would provide some of the building blocks for a more just and equitable
financial system after the COVID-19 crisis. The FACTI Panel
consists of 17 members drawn from policymakers, academia, civil society and the
private sector. The other members include: • Ms. Benedicte
Schilbred Fasmer, Member,  Executive Board of Norges Bank, Norway; • Mr. Karim Daher, Managing
Partner, Hadad Baroud Daher – Tria Law Firm and Director, Lebanese
Association for Taxpayers’ Rights and Information, Lebanon; • Mr. Thomas Stelzer,
Dean and Executive Secretary, International Anti-Corruption Academy, Austria. • Ms. Annet Wanyana
Oguttu, Professor at University of Pretoria, South Africa; •
Ms. Heidemarie Wieczorek-Zeul, former Minister for Development, Germany; • Ms. Irene
Ovonji-Odida, Former Member AU/ECA High Level Panel on Illicit Financial Flows
from Africa (Mbeki Panel), and former Chair of the board of ActionAid
International, Uganda; • Mr. Jose Antonio
Ocampo, Professor at Columbia University, Board of Governors of Banco de la
República (central bank of Colombia), former Finance Minister, Colombia; • Ms. Magdalena
Sepulveda Carmona, Former UN Special Rapporteur on Extreme Poverty and Human
Rights, Chile; • Ms. Manorma
Soeknandan, Deputy Secretary General, Caribbean Community (CARICOM), Suriname; • Mr. Shahid Hafiz
Kardar, Vice-Chancellor, Beaconhouse National University, former Governor,
State Bank of Pakistan, Pakistan; • Ms. Susan
Rose-Ackerman, Professor of Law at Yale University, USA; • Ms. Tarisa
Watanagase, former Governor, Bank of Thailand, Thailand; • Mr. Yu Yongding,
Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, China; and
•
Mr. Yury Fedotov, former Executive Director, United Nations Office on Drugs and
Crime, Russia