 The five governors of the South East of
Nigeria have been advised to take more drastic steps to safeguard the region by
closing all their state borders. Worried by the plight of ordinary
citizens in the region, the group also called for the establishment of a
regional COVID-19 intervention fund, where all sons and daughters of South East
extraction could donate funds to provide succour to the residents of the region
during the lockdown and equip hospitals. The President and National Coordinator
of the pan-South East pressure group, Chief Willy Ezugwu who made the appeal in
a statement on Sunday said it has been very expedient that the governors close
the borders to avert major calamity waiting to happen if there is a community
outbreak of the dreaded Coronavirus disease in the east. “Following the upsurge of
confirmed COVID-19 cases, particularly in the north, a total lockdown of
eastern borders has become very necessary to keep the South East region safer
and ensure that Coronavirus disease does not spread any further in the states. “For those who are yet to take the
pandemic seriously, the death of the Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu
Buhari should have driven home to fact that COVID-19 is not a respecter of
class or personality. Both the poor and the rich have died from the disease. “We are at war with a global
pandemic that has claimed lives in their thousands even in countries with
sophisticated health system. “In every war situation, drastic
measures only are taken with a view to coming out triumphant. “We commend all efforts the
governors have taken so far to curtail the spread of the dreaded disease in the
region. “It’s cheering to receive the news
that Enugu State Government has successfully managed the cases in the state and
have discharged all patients. “Imo State have been able to
remain free from the pandemic, just as Abia, Ebonyi and Anambra states have
done exceptionally well. “However, it’s said that
prevention is better than cure. In view of the present realities, one of the
most needful preventive measures at this moment is a total closure of all
eastern states borders with other states”, SERG stated. On establishment of regional
intervention fund to provide cushion the effects of the COVID-19 lockdown in
the South East states, the SERG reminded “the governors in the region that
it has become most expedient now that the federal government tactically
excluded the South East from any meaningful palliatives disbursement. “The reality is that the South
East region is an abandoned geographical area by the federal government, with
little or no attention paid to the people of the zone. “Our hospital lack the capacity to
handle high number of infections and through the regional pool funds, the South
East can begin to equip hospitals in the zone ahead of any eventuality.