 Attorney-General of the Federation
and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, SAN has written to Governors of all
the 36 states of the federation drawing their attention to President Muhamamdu
Buhari’s approval and authorization for urgent measures to be taken towards the
speedy decongestion of correctional/custodial centres in the country in view of
the COVID – 19 Pandemic. This is contained in a statement by
Dr. Umar Jibrilu Gwandu, Special Assistant on Media and Public Relations Office
of the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice issued to
newsmen in Abuja on Friday 10th April, 2020. Dated 9th  April, 2020 the
letters were titled “urgent need for speedy decongestion of custodial
centres”  where the Minister decried  that from available records,
the inmate population at the various custodial centres across the country
presently stands at 74,127 out of which 52,226 inmates are awaiting trial
persons (ATPs) adding that most of these centres are presently housing inmates
beyond their capacities. Malami said the development pose a
potent threat to the health of the inmates and the public in general in view of
the present circumstances, hence the need for urgent steps to bring the
situation under control. “In light of the above, Mr.
President requests all Executive Governors to request their State Chief Judges
to embark on visits to all correctional/custodial centres within their
respective States to identify and release deserving
inmates where that has not been done already,” the letter reads in part. The Attorney-General explained that
at the requested visit, the Chief Judges are enjoined to consider conditional
or unconditional release of ATPs who have spent 6 years or more in custody
requesting that ATPs who have spent six years or more in custody and those who
have no confirmed criminal cases against
them. According to the Minister, other  considerable inmates included the aged,
those with terminal illness, low risk offenders, those with no sufficient legal
basis to remain in custody, convicts of minor offences with or without option of
fines and those who have less than 3 years term left to serve having served a
substantial term of their jail term for offences that attract 5 years and
above. Malami also demanded that “payment
of fines may be made in favour of inmates convicted of lesser offences with
option of fine, who are in custody because of their inability to pay such
fines”. The Minister notified the Governors
that President Muhamadu Buhari has approved that “State Governors should at
this stage, take measures to facilitate the setting of their respective State
Prerogative of Mercy Committees in order to recommend deserving cases for
release on grounds of pardon or clemency in line with Constitutional
provisions”.