 The controversy trailing the National Social Investment Programme, NSIP has taken a fresh twist with the National Assembly taking  strong exception to  the rejoinder  issued by Presidential Aide, Mrs Maryam Uwais on the matter. The Presidential Aide had  earlier debunked insinuations that the NSIP was a failure or a scam as reported by some newspapers. Mrs Uwai also slammed the NASS when she stated that her rejoinder was aimed “safeguarding the entitlements of the poorest of Nigerian citizens.” Reacting to
her rejoinder on Thursday  through a
statement signed by Mr Ola Awoniyi, Special Adviser on Media to President of
the Senate and Chairman of the National Assembly, the NASS leadership said “We,
therefore, take strong exception to the innuendo by the presidential aide that
her rejoinder was issued towards ‘safeguarding the entitlements of the poorest
of Nigerian citizens, whose benefits are likely to cease because they are not
known or connected to NASS members or any other person of influence.’ That
insinuation is unfair to the members of the National Assembly and entirely
baseless.” The statement added “Public office
holders should be receptive to constructive ideas and suggestions expressed to
enhance service delivery and to improve the performances of public projects and
institutions The text of NASS reaction reads thus: “The attention of the leadership of the National Assembly has been drawn to reactions to some newspaper reports on its meeting with the Honourable Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajia Sadiya Umar Farouq, which held on Tuesday 7th April, 2020. The leadership of the National
Assembly had called the meeting as part of the Legislature’s collaborations
with the executive arm of government for effective management of the
Coronavirus pandemic in Nigeria and mitigation of the harsh effects of the
measures adopted in this respect on Nigerians. The focus of the said meeting was
the National Social Investment Programme (NSIP), which is the vehicle that
Government  is using to convey its palliative packages to the most
vulnerable Nigerians against the backdrop of the lockdown called in many parts
of the country to check the spread of the deadly disease. It is worth noting
that NSIP has been in existence since 2016 and has been pursuing President
Muhammadu Buhari’s determination to alleviate the conditions of especially the poorest
in society. At the meeting with the minister,
the leadership of the National Assembly made some observations on aspects of
the NSIP and recommended that the implementation process be finetuned and the
scheme be backed with legislation to make it more efficient, effective and
accord with global best practices. Although the official Press
Statement issued at the end of the meeting clearly conveyed the deliberations
and resolution of the meeting,  some misrepresentations 
 appeared in the reports by one or two newspapers. Specifically, there was nowhere in
the statement that NSIP was described as a “failure” as reported by
The Nation newspaper or a “scam” as reported by the Sun newspaper.
Also, there was no mention of N2 trillion or any amount whatsoever in the
statement. Virtually all other Media Houses
published or broadcast the Press Statement accurately except for the errant
reports mentioned above. The comments at the meeting were not
made to denigrate any official but to make the scheme more effective in the
delivery of its critical mandate and these comments were well taken by the
Honourable Minister and her delegation. The minister was honest enough to admit
that the NSIP had some “challenges” and also bedevilled with
“intrigues” which she was yet battling with. The leadership of the National
Assembly would not have suggested an enabling legislation for the NSIP if it
does not believe in the relevance of the scheme. We believe this misrepresentation
misled the Special Adviser to the President on Social Investments, Mrs Maryam
Uwais to issue a rejoinder containing unfortunate insinuations which were
totally extraneous to the discussions at the meeting and the contemplations of
the National Assembly. It is true that the leadership of
the National Assembly pointed out gaps in the implementation of NSIP. As the
representatives of the people, it is a key constitutional mandate of the
Legislature to oversight, review and make recommendations for better
implementation of important programmes of Government. That, in summary, was what was done
at Tuesday’s meeting. The observations made by the Senate
President, Ahmad Lawan and the Speakers of the House of Representatives, Rt.
Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, captured the views of  many Nigerians. These
observations also reflect feedback from the people they represent who are the
targeted beneficiaries of the scheme. We, therefore, take strong exception
to the innuendo by the presidential aide that her rejoinder was issued towards
“safeguarding the entitlements of the poorest of Nigerian citizens, whose
benefits are likely to cease because they are not known or connected to NASS
members or any other person of influence.” That insinuation is unfair to
the members of the National Assembly and entirely baseless. Public office holders should be
receptive to constructive ideas and suggestions expressed to enhance service
delivery and to improve the performances of public projects and institutions. The leadership of the National
Assembly is committed to sustaining its cordial working relationship with the
other arms of Government as it has seen the benefits of this approach in the
improved environment and speed of policy and decision making. But this commitment will never deter
or discourage it from asserting its considered views in promotion and defence
of good governance. We urge officials and agencies of
Government to exploit their access to the Legislature in making clarifications
before reacting to newspaper reports on its deliberations.”