 Though the COVID-19 Testing Centre in Kano State has been shut down since Wednesday, eyebrows have been raised over  the death of an economic icon, Prof. Ibrahim Ayagi; professor of physiology and Prof. Aliyu Abdullahi Umar Dikko; the Regional Manager of First Bank in Kano, Abdullahi Lawal. Also disturbing w were the reported death of erstwhile Managing Director (MD) of the Defunct Continental Merchant Bank; and Mallam Musa Ahmad Tijjani, ex-Editor of Leadership Sunday and Triumph newspapers, together with four other illustrious personalities who passed on   after ‘brief illness’.There was however no categorical confirmation  that all the deaths were related to COVID-19. It was gathered that not a few suspects that the eminent personalities, who just died, might have succumbed to the strange illness since there was no evidence of their being tested for Coronavirus. The Covid-19 Testing Centre in Kano has  been shut down with no definite date for resumption of the test in the most populous state in Nigeria. Their demise, PRNigeria reported  in a press release that the series of death occurred within a spate of 24 hours. They all died between Friday, 24 April and Saturday, 25 April, 2020. The other high-profile personalities include Alh. Adam Iliyasu Dal, a former Chairman of the Kano State Civil Service Commission; Nasiru Maikano Bichi; Dr. Musa Umar Gwarzo; and Ustaz Dahiru Rabiu, who is a former Grand Khadi of Kano State. The late Prof. Ayagi was a Commissioner for Economic Development in the State from 1975-1978, just as he was also a former Director-General of Kano Foundation from 1987-1990. Ayagi, who is also the proprietor of Hassan Ibrahim Gwarzo College in Kano, died on Saturday, after a protracted illness at the age 80. Prof. Aliyu Umar Dikko was former Deputy Vice-Chancellor (DVC) at the Bayero University Kano (BUK). He was involved in the opening of three faculties of Medicine / Basic Medical Sciences in Bayero University, Kaduna State University and Yusuf Maitama Sule University. As for Lawal, PRNigeria reported , that the First Bank Regional Manager in Kano, died from a suspected case of COVID-19. Family sources said immediately the late banker took ill, he was first put on admission at a private clinic from where he was referred to Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital. Sources said the late Lawal, who was in his early 50, was rushed to a private clinic after he suffered high fever, intermittent cough, and respiratory hiccups without getting medical care, before he gave up the ghost. In an audio recording, the mother-in-law to the banker alleged that the negligence of the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) in Kano, led to the death of her son-in-law, as she cried out that her daughter and grandchildren be taken in for tests to confirm if they have contracted the dreaded COVID-19. By PRNigera