 Polaris
Bank has once again commended medical professionals, and all those at the
frontlines of the fight to flatten the COVID-19 curve, even as the nation
continues to battle the spread of the pandemic. In
a statement issued in the wake of the Federal Government’s extension of the
lockdown in Abuja, Lagos and Ogun states, The Bank’s Head, Strategic Brand
Management and Communication, Nduneche Ezurike hailed the role of medical
personnel in the fight against the virus that is currently ravaging the entire
world. The
Bank also praised the media for keeping Nigerians up to date with timely and
accurate information; a situation which has made it easier for citizens to be
regularly informed on emerging trends as well as COVID -19 updates thereby
enabling them to cope with the challenges of the times. The
lender said it has mobilized its staff to continue to deliver financial
services to lessen the pain of the lock-down on its customers within the limits
of the operating guidelines during the period. Polaris
Bank has continued to render skeletal services in designated branches across
the country, whilst observing all safety protocols including social distancing.
The Bank has also granted three months forbearance to customers servicing loans
with effect from March 1, 2020, by waiving the penalty payable on interest
charged on loan default. Through
its various communication channels, the Bank has continued to assure its
customers and the general public of its unwavering commitment to uninterrupted
quality service during this next phase of the lockdown, noting that: “Our
alternative channels are available for customers’ use 24/7.” Reacting
to the Federal Government’s extension of the lockdown, the Bank also noted that
“while the current situation brings with it a lot of challenges to many
Nigerians, we implore everyone to support the efforts of the government and all
designated agencies in ensuring that we endure now and save our families and
the nation for the future.” It
will be recalled that Polaris Bank, as part of efforts to combat the deadly
virus, recently teamed up with Nigeria’s private sector coalition against
COVID-19 (COCOVID), to make donations above N15bn to the Federal Government of
Nigeria for expansion of health facilities to contain the spread of the
disease. Polaris
Bank is a future-determining Bank committed to the delivery of
industry-defining products, and services, across all the sectors of the
Nigerian economy.