 By David Otto “The Lake Chad Basin Is So Culturally Intertwined That All Hands Must Be
on Deck At The Same Time – This is the Only Answer To Jihadist End Game In The Region” We are faced with an
unprecedented war against Coronavirus-COVID19 strain – a virus that emerged in
late 2019 from the Chinese city of Wuhan in Hubei province – someone got
infected in the famous Huanan seafood market after apparently feeding on some
animal. Globally COVID19 has killed more than 80,000 people within a couple of
months- at the time of this article. It is still not known how and when medical
scientist working round the clock will eventually normalise this
pandemic. COVID19 is nothing
like a Third World War (WW3) as various analysts have argued. First, the virus
cannot be defeated using any sophisticated weapon; unlike Ebola, there is no
agreed scientific consensus on exactly how COVID19 is transmitted from one host
to another; crucially, the global impact on the world economy and social
interaction and behaviour changes is the first of its kind witnessed in modern
and contemporary time. A Distraction to the
War On Terror; COVID19 is the Real
First World War (WW1). Each nation is directly and indirectly affected by this
invincible, indiscriminate and deadly coronavirus. Difficult economic and
social choices are implemented by both powerful and weak nations alike to fight
the spread of the pandemic, forcing other existential security and terror
related threats to take the backseat on the global agenda for the first time
since 9/11 New York Twin Tower attacks by Al-Qaida – at least until such a time
when a vaccine and perhaps a treatment is approved. Right now, COVID19 is
spreading throughout Europe, Asia, America and Africa at break-neck speed.
Compassionate calls by UN Secretary General Antonio Gutteres for immediate
‘silence of the Guns’ has fallen on deaf ears amongst global Al-Qaida and ISIS
linked Jihadist. To add insult to the injury, ISIS core has linked the virus
outbreak to God’s punishment to all infidel, one the jihadist allude is well
deserving to its sworn enemy – the West and its coalition partners anywhere in
the world. The Lake Chad Basin –
Boko Haram ISWAP. In Sub Sahara Africa,
case in point – the Lake Chad Basin, jihadist linked to Boko Haram and ISIS
affiliates – known locally as Islamic state of West Africa Province (ISWAP)
have intensified offensive attacks against military targets in the region since
the end of 2019 and the beginning of this year. Distracted by the
COVID19 global pandemic, Boko Haram jihadist have seized the vacuum to launch
coordinated attacks in the Lake Chad Basin. In early March 2020, jihadist
stormed the South-eastern region of Diffa – Niger Republic, killing about 7
police officers. In Chad, Jihadist linked to Boko Haram-ISWAP factions launched
a deadly attack on March 23rd 2020 in the Lac Province bordering Niger and
Nigeria killing more than 98 Chadian soldiers including senior officers – more
than 40 escaped with life threatening injuries. In Nigeria, ISWAP
insurgents laid a deadly ambush against Nigeria Armed Forces killing about 100
soldiers in Gorgi village, Damboa Local Government Area of Borno State, North
East Nigeria. April 6th 2020 – Cameroon, about 7 people including a village
head were killed along the Cameroon –Nigeria border town of Amchide by two Boko
Haram suicide bombers. All Hands on Deck: The Multi-National
Joint Task Force (MNJTF) under the leadership of the Lake Chad Basin Commission
(LCBC) was created with various regional states sectors as a task force to
defeat Boko Haram insurgency activities and limit single state only planned
responses against Boko Haram jihadist cells in the region. This is because the
Lake Chad Basin is so culturally and geographically intertwined that all hands
must be on deck at the same time. This is the only approach to Jihadist end
game in the region. Boko Haram/ISWAP groups continue to exploit regional gaps
when individual states launch attacks without coordinating with other MNJTF
sector states. At the peak of
COVID19 pandemic struggle, international ‘war against terror’ partner support
for Lake Chad Basin states could be severely impacted as European Union, UK, US
and other global partners divert and reserve much needed resource to respond
and manage COVID19. Traditional funding from partners in the form of technical
and resource assistance for regional counter terrorism efforts will eventually
take a hit. In addition to the
existential jihadist conflicts and other insurgency movements operating in the
region, Lake Chad Basin states have very weak medical and health
infrastructures which would severely impact on how they manage the COVID19
pandemic. The time overdue for
these regional states to set aside any existing differences and focus on the
common enemy – Boko Haram ISWAP jihadist. Together under the umbrella of MNJTF,
Lake Chad Basin States should design and implement a robust coordinated
military and inter-governmental support strategy to have a much better chance
of eliminating Boko Haram and ISWAP affiliates in the region by tactically
blocking their ability to manoeuvre through porous regional borders given them
the option to retreat, escape, hide, recover and plan further counter-attacks
against unsuspecting regional military and civilian targets. Lake Chad Basin
states must engage in regionally coordinated and multifaceted military and
civilian efforts aimed at simultaneously uprooting jihadist presence in the
region, counter their twisted ideology, suffocate local and external support
networks and degrade their ability to plan and launch attacks against hard
military and soft civilian populations within and across border states. To achieve a
comprehensive and sustainable victory, each regional state must establish or
enhance existing community cohesion activities and trust building networks with
credible local partners together with credible civil society organisations and
international partners. These local networks, given the right capacity,
security and trust, would gain the skills and resources to directly and engage
the most vulnerable groups and ensure that jihadist narratives and tactics do
not continue to create gaps needed for winning the hearts and minds of the
local population. No single nation in
the Lake Chad Basin can ‘Play God’ against a deeply rooted ISIS and Al-Qaida
core and affiliates even when reported internal leadership rivalry amongst
jihadist prevents them from establishing a highly centralised and unified
movement. Individual state led battles against jihadist groups will be won and
lost from time to time, but only a joint sustainable regional strategy will
successfully crush Boko Haram jihadist activities in the region. The strategic
importance for collective regional collaboration – from planning, preparation
to force deployment – explains the genesis and rational behind the creation of
the MNJTF– more than ever, the global COVID19 pandemic and its impact on
external support partners should present the need for MNJTF member states to
resuscitate , regionally fund, Command, control and place a priority to
collectively achieve its most important goal of suffocating all Boko Haram and
ISWAP jihadist presence and menace in the Lake Chad region. No one Lake Chad
country however powerful and strategic will succeed to crush and defeat Boko
Haram ISWAP on their own without a genuine MNJTF civil and military
collaboration and coordination. About The
Author: David Otto is the
Global Risk International (GRI) Director of Anti & Counter Terrorism
programme design and training. David is a world renowned Counter Terrorism and
Organised Crime Expert. He is a Certified Anti Terrorism Specialist (CAS), a
Certified Master Anti Terrorism Specialist (CMAS) and a programme trainer with
the Anti Terrorism Accreditation Board (ATAB); a Certified Expert in Field
Criminalistics from The National University of Penal, Administrative and
security Science – Mexico; He holds a Master of Science (MSc) in Counter
Terrorism & Organised Crime & BA(Hon’s) in Law & Criminology from
the University of East London United Kingdom of Great Britain. David is a
certified ProQual Level 2/ C4Skills practitioner on Preventing Radicalization
and safeguarding solutions. He serves as a Senior Advisor to the International
Police Commission (IPC). David is also a selected expert and lecturer for NATO
forces on Defence Against Terrorism at the NATO School and Subject Matter
Expert (SME) on US DoD Africa Command. He was a pioneer Expert panellist and
contributor to Interpol’s Global CT Strategy 2016 in Bali Indonesia.