 There’s something about
his persona that has defined his life and character. He’s being a fighter from
birth. He’s refused to be drowned by circumstances or challenges. He has
continued to make his way through odds to stay afloat. His name is Samuel
Iorarernyi Ortom, the fifth democratically elected governor of Benue State. He’s
clocked 59 years today, April 23, 2020. He was born on April, 23rd, 1961, and
hails from Guma local government area of Benue. He understands and takes charge
of his environment at all times. Governor Ortom was not
born with a silver spoon, neither was there anyone in his lineage that could
command any significant influence anywhere in the political or business
sectors. In inspite of this, he leaned on God who has helped him to conquer
where the fainthearted would freeze. His incredible life
story is what many would shy away to tell. He did before the Nigerian Senate on
Wednesday, 6th July, 2011 when he was screened to be appointed cabinet Minister.
It was so moving that he was only asked to take a bow and go on account of his
sincerity as a school dropout, a motor park tout and one who struggled to
attain education through very difficult means. As one of his publicists
in the 2015 governorship campaigns, I saw Ortom exhibit an uncommon faith. Here
was a man who lost in the PDP governorship primaries. Yet, he remained
undaunted. He invited everyone to his swearing in on May 29, 2015. It was
strange. A few days after, he emerged a candidate of the APC and won the
general elections. His electoral victory in 2015 could best be described as
God’s handiwork. Nothing more. The aftermath was difficult, but he sailed
through the pile of litigations. As if that wasn’t enough, his re-election in
2019 was laced with landmines that an ordinary politician would have caved in.
Again he emerged victorious. On both occassions, Ortom proved that his
political sagacity was a key attribute to his succes. Interestingly, the
governor has had a swinging wave of political movements. In 2015, he defected
from the PDP after losing at the primaries to the APC and won. In 2018, he also
defected back the PDP under very difficult circumstances. He still clinched the
party ticket. He was able to mobilise the PDP leadership, both at the national
and state levels to queue behind him. He won the party primaries and the main
elections. Then the plot to stop
his second term bid thickened. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission,
EFCC, Department of State Services, DSS and the Nigeria Police became tools in
the hands of the federal authorities to stop him. On one hand, some members of
the 8th Benue state House of Assembly, led by erstwhile Speaker Terkimbi
Ikyange conspired with their collaborators to impeach Ortom. They failed. Ortom is a courageous
leader who has never allowed himself to be weighed down by challenges. At the
height of the resistance to the enactment of the Open Grazing Prohibition and
Ranches Establishment Law 2017, no one could speak up for him. His colleague
governors refused to be drawn into ‘his war’ to save themselves for a
re-elections. He was unruffled. But many whispered to him privately, supporting his position on ranching, not
just for Benue but for Nigeria as a whole.
None  volunteered
to speak publicly to support him. It
was curious how in early 2018, the Police High Command transferred
all of
the governor’s personal police aides to other states. Though the order was later
rescinded, it was part of the plot to weaken him
and oust him from office. Some wondered why Ortom
won in 2019. It was simple. He defended the Benue ancestral land with all
sincerity. He also campaigned like an opposition candidate. The APC on the
other hand campaigned as if they were the party in power. Ortom literally
begged the electorates. He was everywhere, leading the campaign at the front
and not leaving anything to chance. He spoke to everyone. He communicated in
the language the people wanted to hear. The APC relied on a mythical ‘federal
might.’ It never came. Before they knew it, the curtain was drawn. They lost.
Ortom of the PDP won. In the last five years
as governor, Ortom has made impact in road construction, health care
development etc. For instance, from 2015 till date, Benue State University has
graduated 272 medical doctors. Over 42 primary healthcare centres have been
built.  Many more are under way. Security,
agriculture, education, rural development, works and transport have also had
their share. More than 34 ongoing rural roads are under construction. Some are
completed while others are at vaious stages of completion. Rural electrification
projects are also ongoing by the ministry of Rural Development and
Cooperatives. Primary schools reconstruction and rehabilitation has received
tremendous attention bringing hope to that sector hitherto neglected. The
governor is angry that Benue has been turned into killing fields and a
theatre of war, with an increasing number of deaths, destruction of farmlands
and properties. Sometimes an entire village is razed down in attacks. Ortom as
a governor has not rested in confronting Abuja on this. He says this is a
dangerous threat to food security. On May 7th, 2019, the
governor spoke on ‘The Challenge of Mitigating Herdsmen Attacks on People of
Nigeria: Lessons From Benue State’, at the Professor Miriam Ikejiani-Clark
lecture at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN). Ortom lamented how the
Federal Government deployed all its might in an attempt to strangulate him
simply because he spoke truth to power. He had warned that: “those who
think that the problem of herdsmen is only that of Benue valley and Middle Belt
states should watch out. It is spreading and soon it will become an obvious
national social and economic problem too difficult to contain.” And it came to pass. He has never hidden his
anger how Benue have suffered unprovoked attacks and killings
which  appear more like a pogrom or genocide masked
in terrorism. As he puts it, “it’s not because they do not
know their attackers. Benue people know those who are visiting them with
unprovoked violence and killing their kith and kin,”
but says the concern
of Benue people is not just with the herdsmen militia. It
is “with
those who hire the killers as mercenaries; those who bring them and show them
our ancestral lands for them to turn into killing fields.” Ortom suspects the role
of the government at the centre in the implementation of the anti open grazing
law. Their disposition on the activities of the herdsmen have exposed the intentions
of those behind the killings. He feels they are doing everything possible to
truncate the law and ensure the continued destruction of farmlands, occupation
and killings of Benue people by armed herdsmen. This is what he wants to end. As Ortom celebrates 59
years of God’s faithfulness, we’re sure Benue will reap more dividends of
democracy from a man of uncommon courage, who’s always winning against all
odds. Ikyur is the Principal
Special Assistant on Media to Benue State Governor