By Danlami Nmodu President
Muhammadu Buhari has assured the families of abducted Chibok school girls still
in Boko Haram captivity that government has not forgotten them. He made this assertion in a statement Monday signed by his media aide, Mallam Garba Shehu. According
to Buhari, “The nation’s security and intelligence community, in whom a lot of
hope, is reposed in rescuing the abducted girls is making a lot of efforts
using backroom channels to get them back to their families. These are
processes, formal and informal that involves different groups with links to the
terrorists, and are very tedious and uneasy as is seen in different parts of
the world. “The
issue of the Chibok girls is not a forgotten issue. We cannot go to sleep over
this matter. We are optimistic that  ongoing efforts will yield something
positive,” President Buhari assured.” The
president gave the assurances in his statement  extending  his good wishes to the people of Chibok, Borno
State, as they held prayers and thanksgiving services to mark the sixth
anniversary of the kidnapping of their daughters by Boko Haram terrorist group. President
Buhari expressed regrets that the current Covid-19 pandemic, with restrictions
on movement, made it impossible for any government delegation to be with them
during the event. He,
however, assured the people of Chibok that he is still mindful of their welfare
and their concerns, especially regarding our daughters who are still missing. The
statement  said further: “On the specific
issue of the freedom for the remaining girls held by the terrorists, the
President notes the ongoing efforts on two fronts: “The
armed forces of the country who are on general operations in the entire region
continue in their hope that they would encounter these girls, as they did
thousands of other hostages, rescue and bring them back home. “The
nation’s security and intelligence community, in whom a lot of hope, is reposed
in rescuing the abducted girls is making a lot of efforts using backroom
channels to get them back to their families. These are processes, formal and
informal that involves different groups with links to the terrorists, and are
very tedious and uneasy as is seen in different parts of the world. “The
issue of the Chibok girls is not a forgotten issue. We cannot go to sleep over
this matter. We are optimistic that  ongoing efforts will yield something
positive,” President Buhari assured. “Unfortunately,
an ongoing crisis within the Boko Haram leadership, which has led to factions
and breakaway groups, brought a number of unforeseen challenges to the process
of negotiating with the militants for the young women’s release. “In
the past few years, our armed forces have recorded huge successes in the battle
against Boko Haram, but they have also been careful to ensure that as few
civilian lives as possible were lost in the process. We would rather the young
women still in captivity were freed alive.” President
Buhari also reflected on the progress being made by the freed ‘Chibok girls’,
who were sponsored by his administration to study at the American University of
Nigeria (AUN), Yola, saying that he is proud of what they are doing. He
encouraged them to remain focused on their studies and on this unique
opportunity that has been given to them by God, following their horrific time
in captivity. Buhari
also commended Yakubu Nkeki, Lawan Zannah and Yana Galang, the executive
officials of the Association of the Parents of the Abducted Girls from Chibok,
on their steadfast efforts to advocate for the welfare of the parents, the
freed women, and those still in captivity.