 The  IndustriALL Global Union
of  fifty million workers in 140
countries has congratulated the National Union of Textile Garment and Tailoring
Workers of Nigeria (NUTGWN) on the successful hosting of the 12th Quadrennial
National  Delegates” Conference in Abuja recently  and the
election of new  national executive for the next four years. The new
Executive Council is headed by  John Adaji as the President elected for
the second 4 years term. The high points of the 12th Congress
were the adoption of the Secretariat report of activities in the past four
years and the retirement of Comrade Issa Aremu as the General Secretary of the
Union having served the union for 31 years, 8 of which  as  an acting
General Secretary and 23 years as successively elected substantive General
Secretary. IndustriALL Global Union with
headquarters in Geneva in a letter signed by its Secretary General Secretary
Valter Sanches, singled out the Union’s former General Secretary for
appreciation for his globally acknowledged service to the labour movement.
Comrade Aremu attains the statutory retirement age of 60 years January 8th 2021
remains   IndustriALL Vice President and executive member of the Sub
Saharan Africa region until its 3rd global Congress scheduled for Cape town
South Africa in October this year. The constitution of Textile 
Union   makes the position of General Secretary elective of  4
years term which lasts 2024. Comrade Ali Baba, a Principal Assistant General
Secretary in charge of Kano area of the Union was therefore appointed as
the  Ag.General Secretary of the union. The outgoing General Secretary 
had since congratulated his successor whose appointment he said was “earned and
deserved based on commitment, honesty, selflessness and faithfulness, loyalty
to the Union” promising a smooth transition and sustainable progress of the
Union. In spite of the challenges of factory closures and job losses, textile
union had been adjudged relatively stable with peaceful record of successions
at delegates conferences which often focused on issues that affect the workers
and the industry rather than controversial issues of elective offices that had
crippled the cohesion of many unions. The union had signed as many as 45
national collective agreements in its 40 years of existence without a national
shut down of the factories. Labour observers commended comrade Aremu and his
comrades for keeping the cohesion of the union which was once in turmoil in
1993 after an orchestrated violent attack on the union through fake report and
rumors. Aremu had held all critical
positions from an Organizer to senior Deputy General Secretary. He was also for
 two terms elected Vice President of NLC
(2007-2015) and member of labour market institutions such  as Micheal
Imoudu Labour Institute, Ilorin, Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund ( NSITF),
National Salaries, Incomes and Wages Commission, Labour Transport Service among
others. He is  seen as the face of
reindustrialization and revival of textile and garment industry campaigns. Industriall Global Union
specifically singled out NUTGWN for commendation on its campaigns to revive the
textile and garment sector through support to the Federal Government of
Nigeria’s Textile and Garment Policy. It pledges to support the union 
“for a sustainable policy framework for manufacturing and for the
implementation of minimum wages, and the moves towards living wages and decent
work”. In the 1970s and early 1980s,
Nigeria was the home to Africa’s largest textile industry with over 180 textile
employing  some direct 650,000 workforce and indirect millions of cotton
farmers, traders and garment workers, more workforce than the Federal
government! The sector which contributed over 25% of the workforce in the
manufacturing sector and as much to national GDP currently employs less than
10,000 organized workforce.