Following rising crimes in the border communities the Inspector General of Police, IGP Muhammad Adamu, has ordered the deployment of additional intelligence and operational assets of the Force, to Lagos and Ogun States to strengthen security and bolster public confidence in the affected areas. A statement by the Spokesperson of the Force Headquarters, Frank Mba on Monday, said the assets include Police Mobile Force (PMF) Units, Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad (FSARS), Intelligence Response Team (IRT) and the Special Tactical Squad (STS). “The Intervention Team is being coordinated by a Deputy Inspector General of Police, DIG Peter Babatunde Ogunyanwo, fdc, a seasoned crime fighter, who doubles as the DIG in charge of the Department of Research and Planning of the Force and the coordinating DIG for South-West Geopolitical Zone. “He is to immediately oversee the deployments of these additional assets to enhance public safety, public confidence and general security in the two States.” The IGP also ordered Commissioners of Police across the country, “to immediately rejig the security architecture in their various Commands to effectively tackle all emerging crimes associated with the COVID-19 lock-down. They are also to intensify patrols around residential areas, markets, shopping malls and all critical national infrastructures in their jurisdictions. “The Assistant Inspectors General of Police in the twelve (12) Zonal Commands have also been directed by the IGP to bring their supervisory role to bear by ensuring that the Commands under their Zones are safe and secure for the citizenry to live and thrive,” the statement read. According to Mba, “191 suspects have been arrested in Lagos and Ogun States in connection with the incidents. The following exhibits, 15 locally-made guns, 52 live cartridges, 42 Cutlasses and axes and large quantity of weeds suspected to be Marijuana, have been recovered from the hoodlums by the Police Teams in the Agbado, Ifo, Otta and Agege axis.” The DIG, Peter B. Ogunsanwo, can be reached through this GSM No: 08033893226. The Control Room Numbers for Lagos Command are 08127155132, 08065154338 and 07055462708 while that of Ogun Command are 08081770416 and 08081770419. The IGP assured the citizens that the police would “not sit idly-by and allow activities of a few criminals to disrupt the peace and security of the country.”