 The U.S. House
of Representatives passed a new 484-billion-dollar stimulus package on
Thursday, aimed at aiding small businesses and hospitals, as well as providing
new funding for coronavirus testing capacities. The bill, which
passed in an overwhelmingly bipartisan 388-5 vote, was already approved by the
Senate and will move to President Donald Trump’s desk for an expected
signature. The package is
the fourth in a series of unprecedented relief bills passed by the Congress, as
the country reels from massive economic lockdown. Over the past
five weeks, more than 26 million people have filed for unemployment claims, as
the government shut down parts of the economy to slow the spread of the new
coronavirus. The core
funding in the bill includes 320 billion dollars in loans for small- and
medium- sized businesses through the Paycheck Protection Programme. Firms that
maintain most of their workers on the payroll will see loans used for salaries
forgiven. The first
tranche of nearly 350 billion dollars for the Paycheck
Protection Programme ran out last week, as businesses oversubscribed to
the funds, and many smaller businesses are still clamouring for relief monies. House members
voted over the span of two hours, to enable social distancing, and some are
expected to wear masks. “Moments ago,
the House passed urgently-needed assistance to fight this coronavirus and save
lives. “With my
signature, the interim coronavirus relief package goes to the President’s
desk,” House leader Nancy Pelosi said in a tweet. There are
concerns that state and local governments will face funding shortfalls, in what
appears to be the next partisan battle. The centre-left
Democrats have called for more federal assistance to the states, but Mitch
McConnell, the Republican leader in the Senate, indicated this week he prefers
for local governments to declare bankruptcy. Some of the
hardest hit states in the country, including New York, are run by Democratic
governors. The House on
Thursday also passed legislation to establish an oversight panel to monitor the
spending and federal government response to the coronavirus. The 212-182
vote was along party lines with Democrats in favour and Republicans opposing
the measure, claiming the committee would be used as a political weapon against
Trump. Pelosi said the
subcommittee was necessary to ensure taxpayer dollars are not “being
squandered.” (dpa/NAN)