The COVID-19 (Coronavirus) pandemic
is one of the worst crises of our time. At present, over one million people
have been infected, with over 60 000 deaths. This crisis has thrown even the
most advanced countries into chaos, hit global economy hard, led to the global
suspension of many activities (e.g. Sports), the lockdown of cities, quarantine
of even the most influential people, e.g. The British
Prime Minister.
As a result of this, the world is now looking towards scientists for a long-term
solution. The majority of developed countries are depending on scientific advice in designing their policies to
minimise or slow the transmission of COVID-19 so as not to crash their health
systems. While countries continue to use measures to “flatten
the curve’,
the world is earnestly watching and waiting for scientists to develop vaccines
or drug to halt this pandemic. Unfortunately, in Nigeria, scientists
are undervalued. Moreover, there is a high level of misconceptions about the
role of scientists. Often, people confuse scientists with medical
practitioners. While both can be the same in some cases, in most situations,
they play different roles. And while medical practitioners play an
indispensable role in all aspects of human health, this article is generally
about solutions driven by science. If there is one lesson that we all ought to
learn from the COVID-19 pandemic, it is that we need to support science! Here I
summarise my reasons and some of the roadblocks affecting science in Nigeria. Current COVID-19 strategies are to
buy time before scientists find a long-term solution In the current fight against
COVID-19, one of the key strategies recommended by the World Health
Organisation (WHO), is to test as many individuals as possible. A reason for
doing this is to identify,
isolate, contact trace people with the disease and arrange for them to receive the
care needed, thereby reducing the spread of the virus. Testing will not stop
the spread of the virus, but it will enable countries to contain the spread of
the infection and therefore reduce a sudden impact on the health system that
can result from an increase in the number of infected individuals at once. This
strategy will enable the health system to continue to provide support before an
effective vaccine,
or a drug is
produced through scientific research. This emphasises the importance of
scientific research! Should we depend on the Global North? COVID-19 vaccines are currently being
developed in many countries. None is happening in Sub-Saharan Africa. As usual
with most times, we are waiting for the scientists from the “Global North” to
produce the vaccines that we would eventually buy, beg or wait to be tested
like guinea pigs as planned by some French scientists. In times of crisis, people have a
tendency to look out for themselves first. In March, President Trump
unsuccessfully offered a large sum for exclusive
US access to
COVID-19 vaccine that is currently being developed by a German medical company.
A few days ago, he
stopped a
US manufacturing company from sending respirators to Canada. These examples
should serve as a signal that we need to upgrade our science capabilities.
Because we may not always get help when we need it the most if we depend on
others all the time. Even if COVID-19 vaccines and drugs are eventually
developed and become available across the globe, as a nation, we will have
other problems that are peculiar to us (e.g. Lassa fever). Who would come to
our aid if we do not support local research to address some of these problems? Interestingly, the Ministry of
Science and Technology in February announced that they will reward N36
million to any scientist who develops a cure for COVID-19 and Lassa fever.
While this is commendable, how could the scientists make the discovery in the
first place without a good laboratory and money to do the research? We must increase our support for
science and support scientists to do research Leading a team of over 10 African
scientists, last year we published
a paper in
the European Journal of Neuroscience in which we showed that over the last 20
years, only 8% of researches conducted by Nigerian neuroscientists used many
key “advanced” methods that are readily available to researchers outside
Africa, such as polymerase chain reaction (PCR), fluorescence or electron
microscopy, among others. To put this in perspective, more than half of the
Nobel Prizes won in Physiology or Medicine in the past two decades employed
such advanced research methods. Moreover, these are the methods currently used
by scientists in testing and understanding COVID-19 infections and disease
process. To solve our science problems, we must make the investment to equip
Nigerian laboratories with modern research tools and support scientists with
grants for research. Moreover, due to the COVID-19
pandemic, thousands of scientists around the world are volunteering
their time to help defeat the virus, for example, by increasing COVID-19
testing capacities. In Germany, 500,
000 PCRs per
week are conducted to test individuals for COVID-19. If our science research
laboratories were equipped, our scientists would also provide a helping hand
during such trying times to support our ongoing efforts to defeat this
pandemic. Give scientists more time for
research Again, one of the significant problems that affect Nigerian scientists is too much teaching load. In the Global North, teaching and research positions are often separated. In situations where this is not the case, scientists are given enough time for their research. In Nigeria, most universities focus more on teaching than research. This means academics do not get the needed time to conduct research and make discoveries. This affects the productivity and quality of research they produce. Until this changes, even if the government injects more funds into research, scientists won’t be productive at the level expected. This is an issue that the Ministry of Education must address. Incentivising science communication
activities Typical with such trying times,
science misconceptions and disinformation are at an all-time high, especially
on social media. This includes conspiracy theories about the origin of
COVID-19, cures for COVID-19 from untested herbal medicine and denials for the
existence of the virus. Similarly, a few Nigerian scientists have
unprofessionally fuelled this confusion by claiming they have developed a cure
for COVID-19, without presenting their scientific evidence. According to one
report, a University Professor said he has discovered a cure for COVID-19. As
such, “he
challenges any health institution or agency to bring any known case of
coronavirus to him and see how it will disappear within a few days.” This is
not how science is done! Scientific discoveries are announced first through
scientific publications, not to the media. Any scientist rushing to the press
to make such claims without passing through the scientific community should not
be taken seriously. Many scientists in the Global North
are engaging in science communication to address these misconceptions and
misinformation. However, at present, science communication is not considered
highly by Nigerian scientists. In moments of fear and uncertainties like the
current situation, Nigerian scientists could counter such misconceptions and
disinformation in their communities. This would help the government in
maintaining peace and the health of the citizens. This is why we launched
COVID-19 dedicated page on Science Communication Hub Nigeria (www.SciComNigeria.org) and the African Science Literacy
Network (www.AfricanSciLit.org) to fight science misconceptions in
English and local languages. To encourage this in Nigeria, science
communication needs to be incentivised. For example, it can be made a component
of academic promotions, a requirement for national research grants and/or
active science communicators should be recognised with awards for their service
by the government and scientific societies. In conclusion, the COVID-19 crisis
reaffirms the importance of science and why we must continue to support
scientists. Nigeria should use this as a lesson to improve the state of science
in the country and support its scientists to do world-class research. Diseases
will continue to attack. Scientists constitute an integral part of our defence
against such attacks. We must support them to be prepared at all times. Maina is a Nigerian scientist, educator, and researcher, based
at the University of Sussex in the United Kingdom. His research focuses on
neurodegeneration. In addition to his research, Mahmoud is a passionate science
communicator. He is the founder of Science Communication Hub Nigeria and
African Science Literacy Network through which he performs outreach work to
inspire young people in Africa to pursue science and to increase public
understanding of science. He can be reached via @mahmoudbukar