 The
Minister of State for Budget and National Planning, Prince Clem Ikanade Agba,
has confirmed that the nation’s financial records were not lost in the fire
that gutted some offices in the Treasury House. The
Treasury House, in Abuja’s Central Business District, is the multi-storey
building that accommodates the office of the Accountant General of the
Federation (AGF). Initial reports claimed that offices on some floors of the building went up in flame on Wednesday morning due to a power spark from an air conditioner in one of the offices on the fourth floor. However,
while briefing some newsmen at the Treasury House shortly after embarking on an
on-the-spot assessment of the building, Prince Agba said that the Data Centre
was  intact as it was not affected by the
fire. He
said that even if the fire had affected the centre, Nigerians would not have
needed to worry as there was a backup database from which financial data or
records could be recovered or retrieved. Agba
said, “while we were at the National Assembly with the Minister of Finance,
Budget and National Planning and our other colleagues, briefing the Federal
Legislature on our proposals for a supplementary budget, we got a call that
this building here was on fire. “So,
I had to immediately leave just to have a first hand information as to what is
going on.  I am glad to report to you that when I got here, first and
foremost, I met that the fire had been put out by the Fire Service in
combination with the Fire Services from the Central Bank of Nigeria, FCT Fire
Service, NNPC, Julius Berger and also the military. “All
these efforts were led by the Federal Fire Service. I have been briefed that
the fire started around 10 am in an office in the fourth floor. “An
officer came to the office; he said he put on the air conditioner and there was
a spark; he noticed smoke and he immediately put it off, but it was still
smothering; so, he had to rush out to get some help. “The
Federal Fire Service were called about 10:10 am and they responded within four
minutes with three fire trucks. However, there was a little bit of difficulty
in getting inside the building because they thought they should fight the fire
from both outside and from inside. “They
eventually broke inside to fight the fire and when they saw the extent of it,
they called for help and, altogether, twenty-five fire trucks were used to
fight the fire and within 35 minutes, the fire was put under control.” Agba
stated further, “We have gone round the offices where the fire affected and I
am glad to report to you that our Data Centre, where all our records are kept,
is fully intact.  There is no destruction and, so, we have not lost any
record. “I
also should remind you that for a while now, we have really gone digital; yet,
we have some records that are kept manually but a lot of what we do is
online. “And
even if the Data Centre had been affected, we have a backup database that is
outside of Abuja for recovery in the event that we had lost the Data
Centre. “But
the only thing that has happened today to the Data Centre is the exterior where
we have the cooling units at the back.  You know that the Data Centre
always has to be cool. “So,
one of the immediate steps we have taken is to shut down the Data Centre since
the cooling units are not functioning optimally. “We
have directed that those cooling units should immediately be put in order so
that we do not lose anything in that Data Centre. “As
a government, I just want to assure you that our records are intact.  A
few documents are burnt.  We have not started recovery to check what was
burnt and what was not burnt. But All our financial transactions are intact. “We
would be doing a full-scale investigation using the right professionals just to
determine exactly what happened because what I am telling you now is what I
have been told. “So,
the professionals will be able to tell us whether it was from the air
conditioner or it was something that was induced.” Accountant
General of the Federation,  Mr Ahmed Idris, who was with Agba at the
briefing corroborated the minister’s assertion that the Data Centre was intact,
stressing that they were working hard to fix the cooling system of the Data
Centre which was affected by the fire. “We are glad that there were no human casualties. Our physical records can be easily replaced because we have them online real time,” the AGF said.