  A combination of lower demands as a result
of acute global economic paralysis arising from the outbreak of the deadly
corona virus pandemic  and an oversupply
arising from a Russo-Saudi energy war have forced  crude in oil prices in the international market
crashing down to a record low of below $ 25 per barrel. The ravages of the
corona virus otherwise known as covid-19 pandemic, which has left nearly 2
million people infected and has resulted into about 200,000 deaths is an
existential threat to mankind. To contain a pandemic that is highly contagious
through to a human to human contact, the nations of the world have shut down on
economic activities both domestically and internationally through enforcements
of lockdowns and social distancing of the human race in a bid to contain the
spread of covid-19; a viral disease that has no known cure or preventive
vaccine.  In addition to the harvests of
death, the covid-19 pandemic has set off a chain of reactions that may see the
world slide into a global economic meltdown. Nigeria, a mono-economy, which derives over
80 % of its national income from crude oil revenues, which has so far recorded
over 400 cases of covid-19 infections and 12 deaths, is set for another
tumultuous episode of economic recession that may inevitably result into a
depression.  With current realities,
Nigeria’s 2020 national budget of 10.59 trillion naira, which was bench marked
by a crude price of $ 57 per barrel at an output of 2.18 mpb and signed into
effect in December 2019 by President Muhammadu Buhari has become an unrealistic
piece of fiscal fiction. To this end, the Buhari administration has proposed a
wide range of fiscal adjustments to contain the emerging global economic
realities. As a result of the steep decline in demands
and a corresponding fall in prices for crude oil in the international market,
the federal government of Nigeria is proposing a downward review of the year
2020 bench mark crude oil price from $57 per barrel to $30 per barrel and cut
in output from 2.18 mpd to 1.7 mpd. These adjustments will translate into a
scaling down of revenue projections by 3.3 trillion naira from 8.41 trillion to
about 5.08 trillion naira in the 2020 fiscal year in addition to the initial
cut in the budget by 320 billion naira from 10.59 trillion naira to 10.27
trillion naira. Despite a truce recently reached between Russia and Saudi
Arabia, which may see multinational oil cartel, OPEC, making an unprecedented
crude oil production cut of nearly 10 million barrels in the coming months, the
prospect of a price rebound is substantially diminished by the covid-19 pandemic
induced global economic meltdown. Nigeria, a heavily indebted country of nearly
200 million with more than half of its population miserable, hungry and poverty
stricken, the initially proposed budget estimate of 10.59 trillion naira [$33.8
billion dollars] was barely enough to fund its enormous infrastructural and human
development needs. Burdened by a combined domestic and foreign debt of over $80
billion, Nigeria’s incredibly high debt service ratio to revenue of 60% makes a
substantial cut of 40% in its grossly inadequate budget of $33.8 billion, economically
disastrous for the Nigerian people. 
Nigeria seems poised to be one of the worst affected countries in the
world in the impending covid-19 induced global economic meltdown. However, Nigeria’s overt reliance on a
single commodity for the bulk of its national income has made it susceptible to
shocks in the international oil market leaving its economy vulnerable to
perennial dislocations. The lack of a diversified source of foreign earnings
and overreliance of crude oil revenues is an indication that Nigeria’s complex
web of complicated economic problem predates the impending global economic
meltdown caused by the worldwide outbreak of the covid-19 pandemic. Like a ray of light in a dark tunnel, the
covid-19 pandemic and its consequent global economic crisis should ignite a new
conversation on the state of the Nigerian state. Successful nation states in
the modern world are those whose basis of structural formation and corporate
existence are economically configured to compete in the race for global
resources. Whether as liberal democracies, civilian dictatorships, monarchies
or military regimes, successful modern nations whose structures of state are
economically configured are usually well managed and competitive corporate
entities with a distinguishing feature of national cohesion. These nations are
made up by citizens whose hands are mobilized on the deck by a purposeful
political leadership towards converting their internal economic potentials into
an export driven competitive national economy. These nations of citizens will
pull through the ravages of the covid-19 pandemic and make economic recovery
afterwards with mutually beneficial collaborations with like nations but
without necessarily asking for help. On the contrary, Nigeria is a country with
a collection of ethno-geographic nationalities that is yet to achieve
nationhood. The structure of the federating units of the Nigerian state is
delineated along primitive ethno-geographic fault lines, which effectively
makes national cohesion impracticable in a fiercely competitive world. This
faulty structure of state has rendered Nigeria a country of indigenes of the
innumerable ethno-geographic nationalities and not a cohesive nation of
citizens. Unfortunately, this primitive structure of the Nigerian state has
entrenched a culture of ethnic identity politics in the selection of Nigeria’s
political leadership, whose major role is to aggregate the sectional interests
of the disparate sections of country over their share of Nigeria’s oil mineral
revenue. With a polity, leadership and indigenes
that are fixated on the sharing of oil mineral revenues also known as the
national cake, in furtherance of their sectional interests, there is a little
consideration for increasing the size of the cake in the national interest of
the Nigerian state. Rather compete with other nation states for global
resources; Nigeria’s ethno-geographic nationalities are competing among
themselves for revenues accruable from the exploitation of Nigeria’s internal
deposits of oil mineral resources. Nigeria’s steadily growing population in the
last decades and a daily crude oil production 
not exceeding  a little over 2mpd,
the national cake has now become grossly inadequate for 200 million Nigerians. However, with the outbreak of the covid-19
pandemic and the unprecedented fall in the price of crude oil, Nigeria’s major
source of revenue, the grossly inadequate national cake has shrunk in size and
rapidly diminished from continuous sharing. To shore up monthly allocations to
Nigeria’s unproductive federating units in the face of dwindling crude oil
revenues, the federal government of Nigeria having largely exhausted savings
from the excess crude account, has plucked out $150 million from the Sovereign
Wealth Investment Authority. And when Nigeria exhausts its meagre fiscal life
lines, what happens next? It has manifestly clear that only well
managed, cohesive nations of citizens that have been economically competitive
in global race for resources through exports and overseas investments are capable
to enough to draw from their enormous wealth of nation to adequately cater for
the welfare and security of their people at this difficult time. The political
leadership of the Nigerian state, a politically configured waste land of economic
opportunities has been going cap in hand seeking for external help in the form
of billions of dollars of loans, aid or grants in order to keep the ship of
state afloat in this perilous period of covid-19 pandemic. A heavily indebted
and revenue strapped country like Nigeria can scarcely provide adequate
palliatives for its 200 million ‘’indigenes’’ to cushion the effect of its
enforced lockdown to contain the spread of corona virus. Going forward, if Nigeria survives the
ravages of the covid-19 pandemic, its continuous survival in a post covid-19
world depends on its ability to restructure or re-configure its structure of
state from a politically wired-to-fail-country into an economically
programmed-to-succeed-nation by first replacing state of origin with state of
residence.The replacement of state of origin with state of residence is the
first step towards the transformation of Nigeria from an unproductive country
of national cake sharing indigenes into a productive nation of national cake
baking citizens.