 The late Professor Claude Ake of
University of PortHarcourt (Uniport) was a great African political economist
who died in that singular tragic ADC airline disaster of  November 1997. I
was his privileged student at the School of Social Science, where I read
Economics (1982- 1985) following our whimsical mass expulsion from Ango
Abdullahi-led ABU in 1981. It would certainly not be an
exaggeration to say political economy (as a tool for explaining socio-economic
dynamics of Africa) ‘died’ with the demise of the great political economist
himself: Claude Ake (and some of the compatriots mentioned above).  Just
think about! At times like this just imagine the robust intervention of Claude
Ake on the unipolar narratives  (read: monologue) on COVID:19 pandemic.
Africa is shamelessly at the receiving  ends of received policy
prescriptions, grants and handouts with familiar boring sound bites:  lock
downs, imported masks and ventilators dumped at the continent by the 
World Health Organization ( WHO), EU, United States, China, IMF and World Bank?
In search in vain for any clear cut programme on pandemics by all African
ruling and opposition political parties (almost 1000 political parties without
development agenda) in a continent of epidemics even with those with cures and
vaccines. Claude Ake long warned Africa and Africans against what he called
crowded agendas in his book Democracy and Development in Africa (1996). Earlier
Claude  wrote about “revolutionary pressures in Africa” (1978)  before
apartheid was dismantled in 1994, well before the wave of democratization that
swept away one person /military/ one party rule in Africa  and Arabs
springs of 2012. He would have warned today about a lock down without
guaranteed incomes especially for the rural farmers and the poorest of the poor
in informal sectors of Africa. In place he would have recommended “smart” lock
down  and insisted that lives and livelihoods are two sides of the coin of
life! U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres had warned that the world faces
the most challenging economic crisis since World War II, as a result of COVID:
19 pandemic which “threatens people in every country.” Really? What would have
been the reactions of late Dr Bala Usman to this top-down historiography? Whose
world war11? European war or African or Asian wars? Between 2014 and 2016, West
Africa recorded the largest Ebola out break (war indeed) in history. Two and a
half years after the first case was discovered, the outbreak ended with more
than 28,600 cases and 11,325 deaths majorly in Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra
Leone. Seven 
people were infected cared in the United States after they were reportedly
exposed to the virus in West Africa. Six of the American  patients
recovered-while one died. I bet that late Dr Bala Usman and Dr Mahmud Tukur
would have asked: why would Ebola which killed thousands in Africa be
classified as epidemic while  Coronavirus (also thousands killer) a
pandemic? If COVID:19 ushered in recession and depression what about the impact
of Ebola on  Guinea, Liberia, Sierra Leone and
DRC Congo? Why would IMF and World Bank open their safes to selectively bail
out the poor countries  just because the rich are also dying of 
COVID:19? Must Africa wait for Europe and America to face afflictions before
they deserve debt relief and debt cancellations? We can ask spot hummus
questions afinitums. Since the tragic deaths of radical  African
scholars,  Africa has undoubtedly lost enthusiastic spokesmen and
intellectual advocates.  I can hardly add anything to “The World Will Not
Be Destroyed By Fire Or Virus, By Owei Lakemfa in Permium Times of 11th April.
As a snob like me Owei  did justice to the snobbery of the leadership the
Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) which in an embarrassing statement advised 
government against approving the Fifth Generation Mobile Technology (5G)
claiming it is dangerous and linked to the outbreak of COVID-19. The NUJ also
reportedly rejected the invitation of Chinese doctors in order to avoid: “…a
situation where Nigerians will be used as a Guinea pig for any experiment.”
Haba! Some continents do have those peddling ignorance as a trade, again at
times like this when global knowledge driven solidarity is needed to confront
the most opportunistic Virus in history: COVID: 19. Thanks to the Centre for
Democracy and Development (CDD) which promptly dismissed the rising claims and
conspiracy theory linking the new 5G network with COVID 19 outbreak. The
Director of the centre, Idayat Hassan puts it’s better: “5G
does not cause COVID-19. There are two types of 5G: ‘sub-6 GHz’, whose
wavelengths are under 6 GHz, and ‘millimeter wave’, whose frequencies are above
24 GHz. The sub-6 GHz signals are not exclusive to 5G; 4G networks, Wi-Fi and
microwaves all operate using sub-6 GHz signals. Conspiracy theorists point to
the launch of 5G networks around the same time as the discovery of the first
case in China as proof of the relationship. However, the 5G China installed is
the sub-6 GHz type. In other words, your microwave hasn’t given you coronavirus
in all your years of use, neither will 5G networks,” The
controversies which trail the offer of support from China and the uproar over
alleged racism against Africans in  China   in the current fight
against the rampaging COVID-19 are clearly unhelpful. What the nation needs
is  unity of purpose against the pandemic. The point cannot be
overstated that SINO-Africa relations predated COVID: 19 and will certainly
outlive it. Still on Claude Ake. I recall with nostalgia his one-man intellectual guerrilla war against Eurocentric
narratives against China and Africa. It was during the historic international
conference on Rethinking Emancipation Concepts in 1991 by the prestigious 
International Institute of Social Studies, ISS, The Hague, Netherlands, where I
did my master degree in the 90s. Africa and indeed Asia had emerged at this
historic conference as foot-notes in the evolution of emancipatory ideas and
actions.  In particular, Africa was presented as a burden with dubious
distinction in senseless war, famine, under-development, poverty and
disease.  Ake’s intervention at this conference, albeit on the last day,
offered a food for thought, for a largely Euro-centric menu packaged as
international conference. He took exception  to the prevailing myth that
China was known to the world through the Tienammien-Square riots and the
attendant Chinese authorities’ clampdown. In his characteristic lady-like
soft-voice that belied his ever-entrenched resolve, Claude insisted it was
intellectual lip-service of Euro-centric bent that would ‘discover’ China
through Tienammien-Square.  Nigeria’s Foreign Minister Geoffrey Onyeama
has rightly identified the strains on relations with China on poor
communications while urging the Chinese authorities to act on allegations of
discriminations.  Lest we forget,  Africa-China relations is long
dated. It is  characterized by cooperation rather than confrontation. Just
as Africa and China cooperatively put an end to colonialism, apartheid and
contained Ebola, so  also the two continents must unite to contain Covid
19 pandemic. Issa Aremu mni