 Mr Boss Mustapha, Chairman
Presidential Taskforce on COVID-19 has said that the government’s goal is to
ultimately “flatten the curve” of virus in the country. Mustapha said this at the
Presidential Taskforce on COVID-19 news briefing on Friday in Abuja. He said that to achieve this, the
government needs the full understanding and cooperation of all Nigerians. He said that the PTF has received
feedback from Nigerians on the challenges of the lockdown, and the PTF was
doing its best to ensure that the palliatives reach all deserving persons with
ease in the country. He assured Nigerians that
arrangements were also in top gear to expand the palliatives. The SGF also said that the federal
government has developed a Protocol on points of entry, to guide the process of
return/evacuation of Nigerians stranded abroad. He said that details would be
unveiled subsequently. Mustapha used the occasion to warn
Nigerians against spreading fake news. Also speaking, Dr Osagie Ehanire,
Minister of Health said that the recent marked increase in number of confirmed
cases in the country was traceable to the scaled-up implementation of its new
case-finding strategy, as well as a result of rising community transmission. Ehanire urged Nigerians who have
fever or respiratory symptoms of unknown/unclear origin to immediately use a
mask, isolate themselves from friends and family, and call the National
Emergency Number 112. The Minister said that Nigerians
were obliged to disclose their records to health personnel. He said that Nigerians should
disregard rumours and sensationalism. “Stop spreading fake news. Observe
all hygiene rules and take all necessary precautions,” he said. The Minister, however said that all
equipment the government received as donations were decontaminated before use. “It’s a routine process for all
donations,” he added. In his contribution, the
Director-General, NCDC, Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu, said that one of the agency’s
goals was to decentralise testing completely in the country. Ihekweazu said that the agency has
developed a new strategy to scale up access to COVID-19 testing in the country. “It is now up on our website:
covid19.ncdc.gov.ng/resource/guide.” “So if you are interesting in
supporting us on testing, check it out,” he said. The DG said that it was not in the
agency’s priority at the moment to accredit private laboratories, but they have
started because they needed to scale capacity. He said that the Africa Union (AU)
has been a big supporter and enabler of the work in NCDC. He noted that the first four
Nigerians trained in COVID-19 testing were trained by the AU, through the
Africa Center for Disease Control. The NCDC boss said that it was too
early to discuss cause-and-effect or make any conclusions about Nigeria’s
number of deaths and number of fatalities, or compare where the agency were
with the rest of the world. Meanwhile, Dr Sanni Aliyu,
Coordinator PTF, said it was important that as the farming season begins,
farmers would be able to access their farms, farm products and fertilisers. Aliyu said that Nigerians must fight
the stigmatisation of COVID-19 . “We must not shun people we know who
show signs of the virus. Instead, we must help them to contact the authorities
and seek testing and treatment. Dignity is a right for everybody,” he advised. He said that the PTF would continue
to note increased inter-state movement that threatens to accelerate the spread
of the virus. The News of Nigeria (NAN), reports
that Nigeria currently has 442 confirmed cases in 20 states. 13 deaths in all, 152 recoveries
while 277 active cases being cared for in isolation and treatment centers.
(NAN)