By Lesley Muosowo Otu The Nigerian Union of Journalists
(NUJ) has condemned what it termed as the continuous desperate actions of
Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State to destroy journalists and journalism in
his state. In a media release signed Wednesday
by NUJ National Secretary, Shuaibu Usman Leman, the union said that the most
recent development in which Governor Umahi was instigating attacks against journalists
in the State is frightening to the union as it signals clearly that such attacks
on the media are not going to abate any soon. “We regret to note that
Governor Umahi is ingloriously attaining notoriety in his continuous
harassment, detentions and insults on journalists who dare to report what he
feels is against the  interest of his government. “As professionals whose
responsibility is to monitor governance and hold government accountable to the
masses, Journalists now live in perpetual fear of being arrested by security
operatives or attacked by faceless assailants without any just cause in Ebonyi
State”, the statement reads. Leman stated that the NUJ has
repeatedly cautioned against such acts of impunity and stressed that it is
worth noting that press freedom is key to achieving credible democracy. And
this freedom includes the right to seek and receive information from all
available sources to enable formulation of proper opinions to whomsoever one
desires; and to do so through whichever means it is feasible to
communicate. “Such attacks we believe are
meant to curtail such freedoms. In the light of these unabated
attacks and intimidation of Journalists. “We call once more on Governor
Umahi to tread with caution because the union will hold him personally
responsible for any untoward action  on Journalists in Ebonyi State”,
says Leman It must also be noted that a ban jqs
been placed on two journalists in the State from visiting the Government House
or any government facility in Ebonyi State. This, the Union says it sees as a
joke taken too far by the governor since these facilities are public and not
private property. “It should be noted that
neither the Governor nor any government official can determine media content or
stop journalists from holding government accountable. “The Governor may wish to know
also that both the Union and respective media organisations have their own
procedures of disciplining journalists who step out of bounds however we
certainly cannot keep quiet in the face of this brazen attempt to muzzle 
press freedom which is a critical ingredient for democratic governance”,
it reads.