…urges residents on screening, compliance to directives  The Edo State Commissioner for Health, Dr. Patrick Okundia, has said the state is making steady progress in the management of coronavirus (COVID-19), noting that the remaining eight active cases of COVID-19 are being managed at different isolations centres across the state and are responding well to treatment.  Speaking to journalists in Benin City, Okundia said Edo has discharged six persons who have tested negative twice to the virus, and exited another 387 persons, comprising 105 persons of interest (POIs) and 282 line-listed contacts, who tested negative and have completed the compulsory 14-day follow up.  The commissioner noted that the multipronged strategy of the Governor Godwin Obaseki-led administration in handling the pandemic was yielding positive results, adding  that the state is scaling up facility-based screening across the 18 Local Government Areas ( LGAs) of Edo  and commencing community mobile-based screening for COVID-19 in Oredo LGA, to obtain data on how to further contain the virus.  According to him, “While Edo has recorded 15 confirmed cases of COVID-19, we have discharged six patients who tested negative twice for the virus. The remaining eight cases are still on active treatment and are responding well to treatment. Four of the cases are receiving treatment and follow up at home while one is presently at Stella Obasanjo Hospital Isolation Centre (SOHIC) Benin; two are at the University of Benin Teaching Hospital (UBTH) Benin City and one at Irrua Specialist Hospital (ISTH). So far, the state has had 100 percent recovery from the cases admitted and managed at our isolation facilities.  “As we celebrate the successes recorded in the management of COVID-19 in our dear state, it is pertinent to note that compliance with the government’s stay-at-home and social distancing directives, as well as other precautionary measures, are non-negotiable in the fight against the spread of the virus. Wash your hands regularly with soap under running water, use alcohol-based sanitizers, and try to get screened at any of our centres across the state. If you must go out, wear facemasks and avoid large gathering of persons.”