 By Rev. Emmanuel Olorunmagba I want to start this essay by
quoting Barr Akin Ajose-Adeogun, a lawyer and a historian in a short piece he
titled, “AKINYEMI’S FOLLY: The Politics of Bitterness and Hatred.” Barr Akin wrote: “The author (Bolaji Akinyemi)
reminds me of Mr Femi Aribisala who similarly took the opportunity of an
article by Chief Femi Fani-Kayode to trash his late father. “Reading through the inverted
logic and reasoning – if it may be so dignified – of the author, it is
impossible not to come away with impression that the author’s vitriolic attack
on Fani-Kayode is more revealing of him than it is of his quarry, in as much as
it portrays him as a rather small-minded, malicious and emotionally and
mentally  immature little man with a chip on the shoulder. “How else can one rationalise
an argument that bases a charge of treachery on the fact that Fani-Kayode has
friends in the North – as if friendship with some Northerners and opposition to
politics of the ruling class in the North are mutually exclusive – and was
decent enough to eulogise one of them on the occasion of his death, even if they
belonged to different political parties and did not share the same political
philosophy. “Neither Chiefs Fani-Kayode,
Akin Osuntokun nor Obasanjo have ever severed their ties in the North because
of their opposition to any aspect of the Northern point of view on any issue.
And rightly so, because their opposition is neither a personal thing nor a
hatred of the North, but one based on principle. “It is this simple lesson in
humanity, generosity  of spirit, maturity and good breeding that the
author, who appears to excel in the cheap score, has completely failed to
comprehend.” – Akin A. Ajose-Adeogun Reading through the essay written by
one Bolaji O. Akinyemi it takes wisdom to see him as he is, which is a
hypocrite pretending to be speaking for Christians and the Yoruba nation. Only
people with discerning mind will see his essay as a work of a traitor carrying
out the assignment of his paymasters, who have been looking for any opportunity
drag Chief Femi Fani-Kayode (the last man standing) on the ground. But, he is not up to the task. In
fact, Chief Olufemi Fani-Kayode (FFK) will not read his essay even if it gets
to where he can see it, let alone dignifying him with response. In as much as
Chief FFK will not give him any kind of attention, those of us that know Chief
FFK will respond to his pretentiousness. Because I was so dumbfounded to read
that some people even fell for his pranks, no minding the fact that FFK has
been at the forefront of the battle to rescue our beloved country though his
life, family and finance have been threatened on several occasions. And I asked
myself, “who is bewitching Nigerians that they can be easily swayed to
point their daneguns at the back of a man that is risking all to be at the
forefront of the war at the risk of his life. Bolaji must be seriously working for
some paymasters who want to provoke FFK to become silence like others. A man
that has done so much for Nigerians especially the people from the south and an
unknown miscreant suddenly rose up to turn start attacking and some people join
his to repay FFK, evil for his good. There is need to clearly establish
the following points: 1. That there are friendships that
have become like brotherhood that political divide cannot separate. For
instance, my good friend that I call brother, Engr Said Uba (a Muslim) has left
PDP for APC, but till I am typing this essay, we still relate like siblings not
just as friend, yet he is a Muslim and I am a Christian and we are in different
parties. Many of our people in PDP have attacked him since he left the party,
but I know some things about him that many of them don’t know, and I can
categorically and fundamentally assert that despite that Engr Said has attacked
my party on different occasions and our people have attacked him, he (Engr
Said) is still a good man to me and I have not seen anything that will change
my mind about his person as an individual because I know many things about him
beyond the surface that others don’t know. Therefore it takes a fool to misinterpret
my personal relationship with Engr Said to mean that I am a betraying the
masses. Chief FFK has said he knows some things about the late Abba Kyari that
many people don’t know. Even from the tweet of Senator Shehu Sani and Kemi
Olunloyo one will realise that they also know what some of us don’t know about
him. 2. If FFK has not backtracked having
suffered under this government (including but not limited to freezing his
accounts, harassing him and his family, laying siege around his house for 8 hours,
arresting and detaining his wife with his two years old son) yet this fearless
man is still boldly roaring like a lion, then it takes simple common sense to
know that such a man should not be misinterpreted because of his tribute to his
late friend of 40 years. If not for the interest of the masses does he owe
anyone such solidarity? Are there not many people who are keeping quiet in the
face of the tyranny in this country, how many of them have you people attacked
for saying nothing? If he refuses to speak out can any of those attacking, hold
him down? Well, I wouldn’t blame those who are keeping quiet, because they
believe that it doesn’t worth fighting for the people that will be shooting
arrows at you from rear while you are risking your liberty fighting. 3. Except I am missing something, I
have never for once heard that anyone in the name of Bolaji O. Akinyemi ever
attacked this APC regime or any individual in APC. In fact, it was when I saw
his essay yesterday that I ever heard that his name for the first time (Though
I used to know Prof Bolaji Akinyemi who is a different person). After reading
his essay yesterday, I wanted to know his antecedent in this fight that many of
us have risked our freedom to engage in for the interest of Nigerians, so I
kept searching facebook; no account could be linked to him as his account. I
searched Twitter, I could not pin down any Twitter handle to his credit. Then I
told some people to also search, nobody could find any account he owns either
on Facebook or Twitter. Even Google only brought out Prof Bolaji Akinyemi (a
different person). We only saw the essay of this Bolaji on Google and we later
saw the response of one Dele Ajibade who appears to know him down to his family
and who exposes him. Therefore, the question to those who
are dancing around his hypocritical essay is “WHO IS BOLAJI AKINYEMI IN
THE BATTLE MANY OF US ARE RISKING EVERYTHING AROUND US TO FIGHT?” 4. That a traitor, hypocrite and a
nobody suddenly rose up to attack FFK that has canvassed different parts of
this country even in the north (Plateau State, Kaduna State etc) to fearlessly
speak against the oppressed of defenseless,yet some gullible people fell for
his pranks: this speaks volume of why the wrong people kept getting to the seat
of power in Nigeria. And funny enough, the same Bolaji has been exposed as ‘a
mere attention seeking NONENTITY’ and ‘a disconnected protege of Mallam Nasiru
El-Rufai and Alhaji Bola Ahmed Tinubu.’ who ‘in his article eulogising Former
President Ibrahim Babangida IBB, he (Bolaji) turned to also expressed his
admiration for El-Rufai, describing him as a round peg in round hole, who
restored Abuja by exerting “so much zeal”, but by the exit of
El-Rufai it “has fallen back to it’s jungle state of pre-El-Rufai.”
He further added that if a former governor of Lagos State (Tinubu) is made FCT
Minister he is sure that “the splendour of Abuja will be
restored…”‘ (Direct quotation from Mr. Dele Ajibade’s response who
appears to know him well). So is it a protege of Tinubu and El-Rufai that will
now attack FFK and sensible people will follow him? I mean someone that has
written open letter to both Buhari and Osinbajo on how he can connive to bring
RUGA in hypocritical style to Lagos State and Kogi State amongst other states,
if not that his open letter could not get to them. We should know better… 5. Are those attacking FFK
insinuating that he has no right to write tribute (like others did) on his
friend of 40 years that died? A man that was his school mate and that they
worked together in his father’s Chamber. It’s so senseless and too childish for
anyone to attack FFK just because he paid tribute to his friend from another
party. Anyone with common sense will know that no political devide can end 40
years friendship except if they have personal unresolvable crises. 8. Out of many other people
including PDP leaders and serving PDP governors and president of many countries
that also wrote inspiring tributes on Mallam Abba Kyari, why do some people
focus only on Chief Femi Fani-Kayode for attack? Obviously such attack must be
politically motivated, but funny enough some gullible Nigerians are falling for
the prank to shoot arrows at the vocal voice that has been speaking boldly ever
since. Among those that sent inspiring
tributes to the Presidency over the death of Mallam Abba Kyari are: Gov. Samuel
Ortom (PDP) of Benue State, Gov Okezie Ikpeazu (PDP) of Abia State, Gov Ben
Ayade (PDP) of Cross Rivers State, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan (GEJ), Chief Olusegun
Obasanjo (OBJ), Mr. Anyim Pius Anyim, Senator Udoma Udo Udoma, Dr. Akinwumi
Adesina. Other international leaders include: Mr. Emeka Anyaoku (Former Common
Wealth Secretary General), president of the following countries; Liberia,
Guinea Bissau, Republic of Benin, Guinea Conakry; leaders of other countries
too poured in tributes from Japan, Congo, Libya, Mauritania etc. In conclusion, another person who
said he knows the Bolaji said, “The author is typical of his ilk:
small-minded, socially insecure, malicious and seething with the resentment. “He always say crap things, we
used to be in the same platform, he was chased out and due to his treachery he
was been lock up at a police station by Chief Kenny Martins on the allegation
of cheap blackmail.” Therefore, I conclude that if the
basis of his charge of treachery is that Chief FFK is not, in addition to
opposing their politics, an enemy of every Northerner in government, then he is
exceedingly emotionally and mentally immature, and excels only in the cheap
score. TRIBUTE FROM TWO PDP GOVERNORS I will not end this essay without
quoting just two of the tributes from two PDP Governors. Before you say it’s
not true, check Femi Adesina’s Facebook page, I copied the following from his
Facebook ——————— In his tribute to late Abba Kyari,
Governor Ben Ayade of Cross River said, “We have lost a great statesman, a
consummate professional, and an exceptionally brilliant mind. Our nation has
lost one of its best,” the governor said in a statement. According to him, Kyari was a
patriotic statesman who was diligent and meticulous, uncommonly accommodating,
and a great listener who was ever receptive to anyone who came across him. “My heart and prayers are with the
family at this very difficult moment. I pray for the repose of Mallam Kyari’s
soul,” Governor Ayade added. On his part, Benue State Governor,
Samuel Ortom, sent condolences to the President on behalf of the government and
people of the state. He said the demise of a loved one
such as a trusted aide can be devastating, noting that death was an inevitable
end for which mankind must prepare at all times. Governor Ortom also extended his
sympathies to the Kyari family and prayed that God would grant the late Chief
of Staff eternal rest.