 The Nigerian Institute of Public
Relations (NIPR) said Thursday it  has
been partnering with sister organisations within and outside the nation to
gauge public opinion and perception in evaluating the efforts of government
agencies involved in the management of the COVID-19 pandemic in our nation. “This
has helped our professional peer review initiative with similar efforts across
the world” Mukhtar Zubairu Sirajo, fnipr, President,Chairman, Governing Council
said in a pres statement He noted, “Particularly, we will
like to commend the efforts of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) put in place
by the federal government, with the very supportive roles being played by the
Federal Ministry of Health, and the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC)
peopled by our own indefatigable medical personnel and care givers, as well as
the various state governments, groups/associations, and corporate organizations
that have played prominent roles in lending hands of support and succor to both
the government and the citizens.” According to Sirajo, “The general
perception is that if synergy is improved upon and the efforts more carefully
coordinated, Nigeria will yet again rise to this occasion, as was done during
the Ebola outbreak. “We however observe that the
relative success so far recorded would have been even greater had certain
strategic moves been made to engage other critical stakeholders in constituting
the Task Force so that they can avail the nation of their professional
expertise in some aspects of handling the situation. The medical dimension of
the Covid-19 is no doubt, the spindle around which the wheel revolves, but the
pandemic is also a crisis of monumental proportions. Strategic crisis
communication is therefore also important as handling the situation requires
not only public enlightenment but also the crafting of appropriate messages for
it, networking with other stakeholders as well as analysis of pros and cons of
measures to be taken as they affect segments of the society. “This brings us to the issue of the
deep concerns being expressed by Nigerians, including, crucially, the Nigerian
Medical Association (NMA), on the involvement of Chinese citizens, albeit their
medical professionals, in handling the pandemic situation in Nigeria. Apart
from causing possible professional friction in managing the situation, which
the nation can ill afford at this time, information already being circulated,
be it fake or real, points to a perceived doubt of the altruism of a Chinese
involvement in the fight against the pandemic. We hasten to add that, had
strategic communication being deployed, before accepting the Chinese offer, the
country might not have been in this somewhat embarrassing situation. In our
considered opinion, taking a strategic stakeholder like the NMA into confidence
through regular consultations would have enriched the initiative and provided
professional expertise to accommodate the peculiarities of our reality. He added that, “With the WHO
commendation of Nigeria’s effective efforts at curbing the pandemic, what our
doctors need among others, is some encouragement and a boost at this crucial
time and not a move that would seem to demoralise them. Our reputation as a
nation and as a people as well as our territorial integrity, is at stake; we
must therefore guard against mortgaging it for anything “To this end, we advise the Federal
Government to once more review its position and carefully handle the matter in
a way that reassures the citizens of its full understanding of the situation,
while at the same time upholding the existing cordial relationship between
Nigeria and China. “At a time like this, what matters to
every nation, is the defence of its integrity and the interest of its citizens.
This is what we believe to be uppermost in the mind of the Federal Government
in handling the COVID-19 and any other ancillary issues arising; and to that
extent, the NIPR will continue to support the initiatives of both the federal
and state governments, as well as other concerned organisations involved in
providing genuine sustainable solutions. It was to support government as well
as underscore the gravity of the situation that we got into, that the NIPR,
before the government came up with the directive on social distancing, not only
suspended all its activities, including the Annual General Meeting, but also
closed all its offices more than two weeks ago.” Sirajo said “The NIPR also believes
that the relatively low (even though rising) figures of those that have so far
tested positive for the COVID 19, gives cause for optimism that the pandemic
will be contained shortly. We must however not rest on our oars as the figures
may not be telling the full story; the devil is in the number of people so far
tested. “The government should therefore
intensify efforts at providing more testing facilities and distributing same
across the nooks and crannies of the country to avoid the potential of people
being infected without knowing. “Every crisis situation comes with
an opportunity that needs to be seized. Covid-19 affords our governments across
all tiers, an opportunity for introspection and sober reflection on the state
of our healthcare system. For once, all Nigerians, irrespective of status, have
no choice but to rely on services provided by our facilities at home. We must
therefore ensure that our healthcare system becomes one of the greatest
beneficiaries of this crisis through a systematic upgrade of the infrastructure
and ancillary services post Covid-19. “We also commend the Nigerian media
(print, broadcast as well as online), for having so far, discharged their
responsibility to keep the populace informed of government policies and directives,
as well as the adverse impact of the pandemic across the world. So far, their
various efforts have, apart from alerting the populace, also doused
apprehension and misinformation. Yet there is a yawning gap in dealing with the
fundamental issues of Citizen-orientation for which the NIPR is willing to
offer a platform to government. “I enjoin all my professional
colleagues in both the public and private sectors, to scale up their games in
strategic communication to support respective government policies, activities
and all efforts towards fighting the pandemic. Winning the information
management battle is a sure way to facilitate the defeat of Covid 19 itself,
which is the causative war. “We commiserate with families of
those who lost their lives in the pandemic, while we pray that those that have
tested positive will recover speedily.  We strongly believe that Nigeria
will come out of this sooner than we think. We advise against distractions at
this time. We appeal to the government and those out of it to guard against
politicizing any aspect of this very crucial fight for survival while also
appealing to all Nigerians to rally round the government as it strives to
protect us all,” the statement said.