 Press
release The Central Bank of Nigeria
(CBN), as part of efforts by the Nigerian government to fight the COVID-19
pandemic and its impacts, announced the release of 50 billion naira for a
Targeted Credit Facility for households and small and medium scale enterprises
(SMEs). With the current dip in the global
price of crude oil, there is a spectre of economic recession in Nigeria.
 Government spending capacity to boost aggregate demand will be
drastically affected. A cumulative impact of COVID- 19 and oil price induced
recession would stifle local businesses, thereby increasing the level of
unemployment in the country. It is, therefore, essential to put in place
measures to protect citizens and the economy post-COVID-19 pandemic. According to the Central Bank, the
Targeted Credit Facility would ameliorate the adverse effects of COVID-19 on
households and MSMEs. The intervention would stimulate credit to MSMEs to
expand their productive capacity through equipment upgrade, research and
development. Government’s intention to support vulnerable households and to
stimulate the economy through support to small businesses is commendable. SMEs
provide employment and contribute to poverty alleviation. The CBN’s guidelines for
implementation of the scheme shows some considerations to help cushion some of
the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on business by making provision for a
one-year moratorium in case businesses affected by the virus outbreak are not
be able to repay their loans. However, a careful examination of the
intervention plan, as put forward by the Central bank of Nigeria, throws up
issues that cast strong doubts on its practicability and indeed the sincerity
of purpose in the intervention. The exclusion of the
informal economy The structure, guidelines and
conditionalities for target beneficiaries seem to negate the very stated
objectives of the Facility. The CBN Guidelines for the implementation of the
Credit Facility, released on 23 March 2020, the scheme focuses on households or
enterprises with verifiable evidence of livelihoods adversely affected by the
COVID-19 pandemic. While proof of registration and existence as a business is
imperative for accessing such credit, specific requirements in the CBN
guidelines would result in the exclusion of the vast majority of Nigerians that
operate in the nation’s thriving informal economy. While officially, micro, small and
medium scale businesses in the country contribute about 50% of the nation’s GDP[1] and 30% to
employment creation, in reality, the level of contribution to GDP is in the
range of 70-75 per cent and about 80% to employment.[2] The informal sector
constitutes about 75% of the nation’s active economic stream as well as 70% of
the private sector.  A large proportion of this economic stream operate as
unregistered businesses and would not benefit from CBN Targeted Credit
Facility. Collateral The CBN set unduly overbearing
collateral requirements for obtaining the loan. Collateral requisitions such as
“movable assets, title documents and deed of debenture” before the loan can be
assessed negate the spirit of the intervention. Such a requirement will limit
the ability of small enterprises to access as the majority of micro-businesses
cannot provide these requirements. Single Manager of the
Fund? Another concern and issue with the
scheme is the appointment of a sole-manager for the 50 billion naira fund. The
CBN appointed just one Microfinance Bank, NIRSA, to manage the funds. The sole
management of such a huge amount by a single Microfinace Bank with limited
branch coverage across the country is inadequate. There are about 37 million
SMEs operating in states, local government areas and communities across
Nigeria. With other herculean requirements for accessing the fund in place, the
added burden of trying to reach a single microfinance bank at a time of
restricted movements is too much for vulnerable small and medium scale
businesses. As there are over 800 Micro Finance Banks in Nigeria, the CBN
should utilize more of them to ensure better national coverage of the scheme. In the light of the preceding, and
for the CBN’s Intervention Program to be effective and achieve its aim, it is
pertinent for the Apex Bank to immediately revise the scheme to take care of
the poorest households who operate in the informal sector. Secondly, there is a
need for the process of disbursement of the credit to be diversified. More or
other banks with wider reach should be enlisted into the scheme to enable the
process of accessing the loans be less cumbersome and within reach of the
citizens. Lastly, if the programme is indeed to achieve its intended and stated
goals, then the CBN should, as a matter of necessity, review the collateral
requirements and other conditionalities tied to the Intervention Funds in a
manner that is indicative and reflective of government’s understanding of the
COID-19-inflicted difficulties on people and businesses in the country. [1] https://www.pwc.com/ng/en/events/nigeria-sme-survey.html [2] https://guardian.ng/features/how-msmes-contribute-54-per-cent-of-nigerias-gdp/ Botti Isaac Programme Officer, Social Development Integrated Centre (Social Action) No 20, Yaling Street, Wuse II, Abuja