 The Kwara Government has reviewed
its earlier decision to allow vehicles to move around on days earlier
designated for restocking of food and other essentials and has now directed
residents to patronise only neighbourhood shops. Kayode Alabi, the Deputy Governor
and Chairman of the Technical Committee on COVID-19 in the state, announced the
decision in Ilorin on Tuesday. He said the review meant that
commercial and private vehicles were now barred from operating, except trucks
and trailers conveying food stuffs, medicines and other essential services
earlier exempted by the government. Alabi said major markets such as
Ipata and Oja-Oba were also banned from operating for 14 days from April 15. He said retailers could  now
set up shops in schools and open spaces in their neighbourhoods between 8 am
and 12pm on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Alabi, however, said all
congregational prayers remain banned as before. “COVID-19 is an emerging public health
development across the world and governments are studying situations and making
adjustments to cope with the emergency. “Last week, the Kwara State
Technical Committee announced some measures to enable people go out to get food
and other essentials on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays. ” In handing down these measures,
the government called for respect for social distancing and other safety
protocols. “We experimented with the measure on
Monday and observations were made accordingly; the committee is making the
following adjustments: “Government is hereby restoring
full-scale lockdown across the state for the rest of the 14 days earlier
declared and the movement of all vehicles are banned except commercial vehicles
carrying food, medications, goods and services ” Marketers may use neighbourhood
schools and open spaces to set up shops from. 8am-12pm on Mondays, Wednesdays
and Fridays to meet the demands for food in the community while maintaining
social distancing and all restrictions on social gatherings,”  Alabi said. He also confirmed four cases of
COVID-19  in the state. Alabi said the cases were two males
and two females, adding that 42 tests had so far been conducted out of which 29
were negative while nine  results were being awaited. (NAN)