COVID-19 palliatives: BPE targets 1,200 households in FCT The Bureau of
Public Enterprises’ (BPE) palliatives to cushion the harsh effects of the
Coronavirus Pandemic (COVID-19) amongst vulnerable Nigerians are targeted at
1,200 households in the Federal Capital (FCT), Director General of the Bureau,
Mr. Alex A. Okoh has said. The Director
 General disclosed this during the distribution of the items made up of 300
bags of assorted food types to the less-privileged in the second phase of the
programme on Good Friday,
April 10, 2020 at Yimitu Village, a suburb of Apo,the Federal
Capital Territorry (FCT), Abuja. He reiterated
that the Bureau was moved to embark on the gesture given the hardship 
Nigerians, particularly the vulnerable amongst them, were subjected to in the
face of the lockdown occasioned by the stay-at –home  order of
  the Federal Government against the spread of the pandemic. Okoh said that
the gesture was initiated and supported solely by the management and staff of
the Bureau, adding that “contrary to the belief that privatised enterprises in
the country are part of the initiative, they (privatised enterprises)’s
contribution is to the Federal Government’s Presidential Committee on
COVID-19” He said that
in line with the criterion set up for the distribution of the items, preference
would be given to widows and single mothers who were targeted to get 60 percent
of the items and the remaining 40 percent to the vulnerable in the area. Responding on
behalf of the beneficiaries, one of the community leaders, Nze Leonard
Iheanacho, Eze Ndi’Igbo in the area, commended the Bureau for the kind
gesture, noting that it was timely as most families in the area had been
without food since the lockdown began. “We can’t
believe what we have seen. When we heard the news of the Bureau’s team coming
with the food items; we took it with a pinch of salt as such promises in the
past have never been fulfilled. But BPE has proved us wrong and we thank the
organisation immensely for the gesture”, he added. It would be
recalled that BPE commenced the gesture in line with its Corporate Social
Responsibility (CSR) last Monday with the donation of assorted food items to
the Dutse-Alhaji Community, also in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja
 where jubilant beneficiaries took home bags of food.