 The Civil Empowerment & Rule
of Law Support Initiative, CERLSI, has asked President Muhammadu Buhari to
withdraw a posthumous presidential pardon he gave to Late Professor Ambrose
Alli, first civilian Governor of Bendel State who was in office from 1978 and
1983, and apologize to his family for the spurious charges of corruption which
the Buhari junta levelled against the esteemed Prof, and which led to his very
untimely death in September 1989. In a statement to the media in
Benin City after the announcement of the presidential pardon, CERLSI deputy
executive editor, Bob MajiriOghene Etemiku said that it was President
Buhari who should ask for pardon for sending an innocent man, who greatly
improved on the wellbeing of Bendelites, to jail and sending him to a most
painful death on his birthday. Professor Ambrose Folorunsho Alli
as governor of Bendel State under the defunct Unity Party of Nigeria, UPN, the
group said, improved greatly on the fortunes of the old Bendel State. His
signature achievements were in the educational sector where he abolished school
fees, fed students and made books available for free at all levels and paid
compulsory bursaries to students and civil servants in Bendel state in all
tertiary institutions in Nigeria. He was among those who called for true
federalism, and for the regions to control their resources. A university he set
up is named after him in Ekpoma Edo State. Prior to being governor, the Late
Prof Ambrose Alli was a member of the defunct Constituent Assembly that drafted
the 1979 constitution. He lectured at the Ahmadu Bello University, the
University of Ibadan and at the University of Benin. ‘We are bewildered that a man who
overthrew a democratically elected government and jailed an innocent man is now
as a civilian president pardoning a man who had only N500 in both his personal
and official accounts before and after his tenures as governor. At CERLSI, we
are convinced that the presidential pardon on some Nigerians especially that
which was conferred posthumously on Prof Ambrose Folorunsho Alli, may be a
gesture of remorse by Mr. Buhari. If this is so, we believe that he must do so
properly instead of through the back door of a posthumous presidential pardon’,
the CERLSI statement read. ‘A mere posthumous presidential
pardon will not atone for the injustice meted several years ago to a man largely
above the ranks of most governors today. What the President must do is first
make a public apology to the Prof Alli family.  The late Alli had just
N500 in his account before and after his tenure. Let president Buhari right the
wrong he did this man by following in his footsteps, declare his assets and
make it public’, Mr.  Etemiku said.