 Given the slow but steady spread of COVID 19 to most states
of the federation, it is easy to see some classification among the state government
as to these that have dealt with the pandemic for longer period in their
states, whose who have started not only along, those just starting and those
waiting to join the league. What this means is that there is stock of knowledge,
experience and lessons to share among the Governors in the hope of learning from
each other to enhance their own individual responses in their states.  They could be moving towards a community of practice
in which it is possible to assess what has been working well, what is not working
well and what could be done differently. States, especially those joining the league
or about to join should be able to learn from the mistakes made by others before
them and devise strategies of how to avoid these mistakes or leverage on the best
practices that are emerging. State governors would also have to compare notes on their
different palliative programmes: what are the contents, the targeting mechanisms,
the distribution methods, success rate, etc. How would they address specific
problems that are unique and specific to their states? They could share experience
about the efficacy of the lockdown and what challenges they face. For instance,
while in Lagos at the beginning the lockdown was converted by some criminals
into an opportunity to terrorize communities, in Kano State, it was undermined
by a highly skeptical population that does not trust what government says. All these considerations would make the governors to have a shared
understanding of what is working, and what is not. It would help them to have a
more coordinated approach, including on how to treat border cases (such as the one
that almost created misunderstanding between Kano and Jigawa State Governments
or the current efforts by Kano State Government at repatriate almajirai to
their states of origin. While Lagos did not consider seeking to repatriate
people to their states of origin, a number of the index cases of some of the
states were import from Lagos State. In this context, therefore it is perfectly important that Governors
meet to compare notes and promote a unity of purpose and better coordination among
themselves. But the suggestion for them to meet faces a number of challenges.
For one, our airports are closed and we could not want the Federal Government
to allow them an exemption that could easily be abused. Secondly, the Governors
would not want to travel by road because they have no confidence in what they
did to address insecurity in their states. 
But that is a small matter. To physically meet will also violate their own lockdown
orders. First, they would have to break the directive about the border closure
they have erected. Secondly traveling outside the states means breaking the stay
at home order of not only their own states but also that of the state to host
the meeting. Of course, you can say they can be considered as exempted to the directives.
Are there no alternative ways for them to meet? 
There are of course many ways to so. eMeeting technologies and platforms such as zoom, Jist, google
meet, etc are freely available. For instance, since the we decided to close our
offices on 23rd March, and work remotely from home, I have on daily
basis been participating in at least two online meetings, many of them of international
in nature, with partners and colleagues from different parts of the world. Only
yesterday eLearning Africa, held a major one-day seminar on Education Delivery
in the Context of COVID 19 and I watched (listened to, actually) the Lagos
State commissioner of Education made one of the presentations from Nigeria. Of
course, Governors could say these are open platforms and they would not trust them
for confidentiality but nothing stop them for deploying custom made e-conferencing
platforms.  The technology is not a
rocket science and does not require long period to conceptualize, design and deploy.  Given that the virus took some time before it
landed in the country, they could have anticipated this need and plan as to have
it in their mitigation strategies So, this the question: why is it that they have not deployed
this to enable them meet? The simple answer is that our Governors are not ready
to do any planning and simply waited till the virus hit their ports. They acted
like the village farmer whose calendar consist of just one item which is the first
rain. So, they all sit down and waited for them to get their index cases and
only then did it occur to them they should begin to devise strategies to
address the problems at hand. In this case their responses tend to be reactive
and adhoc, lacking in depth and innovation, that are often not well sought out.
This is why in some states, like Kano for instance, a week into the lockdown,
no knows what the palliative plans are. Our governors, it seems do not really appreciate the enormous
responsibilities of their office. What they understand is the enormous powers
they have, many of which they tend to abuse. We can help them to do their work
by constantly showing their shortcomings, not become we want to deride them but
because we want them to excel by offering them suggestions on what they should do
to improve. In this, we must demand that leaders as governors must be transparent,
opened and be willing to engage the electorates who have voted them into
office. We cannot make progress if the only framework of engagement between the
electorates and the elected is one of mutual blockage, arising from the bitter
experience of the electorates of the unfaithfulness of the people who got their
votes.