 “ As community leaders, political
leaders and our elected representatives, it is your duty to use your existing
structures, your tentacles, within all the communities to sensitize and inform
the general public of what every person needs to do because without this joint
effort and community participation, there is no way the medical efforts alone
will be successful”. These were the words of the FCT
Minister, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello following a meeting held with the political
leaders in the FCT on Thursday, 2nd April. Present at the meeting were the
FCT Minister of State, Dr Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu, Senator Phillip Aduda, Senator
representing the FCT, Hon. Micah Jiba representing AMAC Bwari Federal
Constituency, Hon. Hassan Sokodabo, representing, Kuje, Kwali Gwagwalada and
Abaji Federal Constituency, the FCT Chairmen of APC and PDP, the FCT
Commissioner of police, other security chiefs as well as senior members of the
FCTA bureaucracy led by the Permanent Secretary, Sir Chinyeaka Ohaa. The Minister reminded the
political leaders that should the virus reach the grassroots level and attain
community wide spread, it will become extremely difficult to fight. He therefore
appealed to them to resuscitate their political structures and influence to
sensitize the populace in the fight against the virus. Malam Bello said “…that’s why I’m
appealing to you to reactivate all your political structures in the 62 wards of
the FCT. Use all your men and women that you used during your campaigns; use
them now to help us all fight this pandemic because it is crucial and that is
why we call upon you to support us”. The Minister reiterated that
COVID 19 can be defeated using a two pronged approach of heeding to medical
directives and the distribution of palliatives to help the most vulnerable in
society. He therefore urged the political
leaders to sensitize their people on the need for personal discipline and
hygiene consisting of constant hand washing, maintaining social distancing and
abiding by all other medical measures. Speaking on the flouting of the
stay at home directives, by some residents, Malam Bello directed the security
agencies not to hesitate to arrest anybody found to be disobeying. He said “we also emphasized the
need for the security agencies to be very firm with anybody, individual or
group that flouts the regulations enunciated by the Federal Government and the
Presidential Task Force on COVID 19” While appealing to the people of
the FCT to come together and collectively fight the pandemic, Malam Bello said
that was the only way it could be defeated. He also acknowledged the support
the FCT Administration has received from the political leaders of the FCT. In her own  remarks, the FCT Minister of State, Dr Ramatu
Tijjani Aliyu, once more reminded residents to obey the anti COVID 19 measures
put in place and stay at home. She also said that while fumigation of public
areas have intensified, there was the need for residents to play their part by
remaining indoors and stop the  spread of
the virus, Speaking on the distribution of
palliatives, Dr Tijjani Aliyu said that adequate arrangements have been put in
place to ensure that only those who were entitled to the palliatives actually
receive them. She said that the FCTA was working with the grassroots leaders
made up of councilors, ward leaders, civil society, youth groups as well
religious organisations in this regard. She also said that several
volunteers in the FCT have been donating their time and resources in the fight
against the Coronavirus revealing that so far about seventy vehicles have been
received and ready to be deployed along with vehicles from the FCTA and Area
Councils to transport food stuff from five stores where they were currently
being warehoused. In his remarks, Senator Phillip
Aduda commended the FCT Minister and Minister of State for the proactive
measures the FCTA has taken in the battle against COVID 19 and pledged the
support of all the political leaders of the FCT, regardless of political
affiliation. The Senator donated 1000 bags of
rice and over 150 cartons  of hand
sanitizers for the fight against the virus.