The robust collaboration
between the FCT Administration and private sector concerns will in the coming
days make available 600 beds in various treatment and isolation centers across
the FCT for the fight against COVID-19. This
was disclosed on Thursday, April 9th during a ministerial press
briefing held by the Minister of the FCT Malam Muhammad Musa Bello in
conjunction with the Ministerial Advisory Committee on COVID-19 under the
chairmanship of the former minister of the FCT, Dr Aliyu Modibbo Umar. Malam
Bello revealed that based on medical expert advice, the Asokoro Hospital has
been fully converted into an isolation and treatment center and can accommodate
up to 100 patients inclusive of those that will require intensive care
treatment. The
Asokoro Isolation and Treatment Center is due to be opened on Friday, 10th
April. On
the Idu Isolation center, the Minister said that the facility can accommodate
up to 300 beds and he expressed the appreciation of the FCTA to Polaris Bank
for provision of 100 beds and Mr Fola Adeola of the FATE Foundation for the
provision of 50 beds and other items such as monitors and PPEs. The Minister
also thanked the CCECC for the providing the furniture, air conditioners and
power and water to the facility. The
Minister also disclosed that the General hospital Karu is being retrofitted and
upgraded into a standard Isolation and Treatment center. Malam
Bello also revealed that more patients in FCT Isolation and treatment center at
the University of Abuja Teaching Hospital will be released in the coming days
if their test results come out as negative On
members of the public who violate the lockdown directive especially in some
satellite areas, the Minister said continuation of this will give the
Administration no choice but to enforce even stricter measures as it was
determined to flatten the curve of COVID 19 cases in the FCT. On
the Palliative measures being put in place by the FCT Administration, the
Honourable Minister of State, Dr Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu revealed that 600,000
households of 100,000 each from each Area Council are billed to be benefit from
these measures. She
said that there will be in place a monitoring team made up of civil society
organisations, religious and traditional rulers, youth and women groups to
ensure an equitable distribution of the palliatives. She also revealed that
distribution will be carried out through a door to door mechanism to prevent
overcrowding. Malam
Bello sincerely thanked members of the Ministerial Advisory Committee for
devoting their time, expertise and personal resources for fighting the pandemic
in the FCT. He also expressed gratitude to the medical personnel in the
frontline of the fight against the virus as well as volunteer journalists who
have used the platforms provided by the FCTA to enlighten members of the public
on its dangers. The
Minister also mentioned and appreciated the corporate organisations that made
donations to the FCTA for the fight against the COVID 19 pandemic. They include
the MTN Nig PLC and Mikano for the supply of one 350 KVA generators each at the
Karu General Hospital and University of Abuja Teaching Hospital Isolation and
Treatment Center, Julius Berger Nig. PLC for the supply of 350 hospital beds,
GE Health for the repair of broken ventilators, GT Bank and Zenith bank for
their efforts at the Karu General Hospital and the Abuja Chamber of
Commerce complex respectively. Cash
donations as announced by the Minister include the Bank of Industry; N100,000,000,
CGC Nigeria Ltd N20,000,000, Dantata and Sawoe Construction Company ,
N15,000,000, Arab Contractors  OAO Nigeria Ltd N15,000,000 and Gilmor
Engineering Ltd, N10,000,000. The
Minister also appreciated UBA Nig. PLC for the donation of N300,000,000 to the
FCTA and N200,000,000 to the NCDC as well as  the NCC for a donation of
N25,000,000. Also mentioned and appreciated was Honeywell Group for its
donations which has become a part of the palliatives to be distributed. Earlier,
the Chairman of the Ministerial Advisory Committee Dr Modibbo Umar said that
the Committee was formed to complement the excellent work the FCT
Administration was doing towards averting the COVID-19 pandemic.