 The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, has
cautioned members of the public against emerging online
fraudulent tactics, being explored by internet fraudsters in the wake of
the donations arising from the dreaded COVID- 19 pandemic. The Acting Chairman of the EFCC, Mr Ibrahim Magu, who
disclosed the development on Monday, April 6, 2020, stated that the caution has
become necessary, in view of the increasing number of complaints received by
the Commission from innocent Nigerians falling prey to the antics of internet
fraudsters, who are taking advantage of the pandemic to defraud unsuspecting
targets. In the last couple
of  days, home-bond  internet users have complained of 
receiving several e-mails, sms, Whatsapp messages offering free services such
as “Do-It-Yourself” Covid-19 tests;   subscription to
either Netflix, hulu, DSTV, Government Intervention/Grant of N30, 000) and
other tricky offers. Some of the fraudulent schemes are coming in the form
of links that offer free data or request for the Bank Verification Number, BVN,
and account details of their victims, assuring that such victims will be
credited with money, as part of the federal government’s palliatives to
cushion the effects of the running Stay At Home order. According to Magu, many of the fraudulent
online messages require recipients to click and fill out an online survey
and forward same to ten (10) Whatsapp users. The statement reads in part, “The
messages are embedded with malwares and other malicious codes which when
clicked, trigger a program that steals and compromises mails, banking logins
passwords, credit- related information and other critical data contained on the
recipient’s devices. Victims stand the risk of losing both confidential
information and monies,   since unauthorised access may have been
granted to cybercriminals. They are also in danger of being infected with a ransomware
which will automatically lock their electronics device.” Magu further advised the general public to immediately
take the following steps in protecting their data from theft and compromises: i.              Do not open unsolicited
e-mails and click only on those that are from known and trusted sources. ii.            Do not click on any
links or attachment with e-mails from unknown source. iii.          Take a closer look at URLs
for spelling errors before clicking. iv.         If you need any
information, go to the official website of the organisation. v.           Turn on personal
Firewall on your devices. vi.         In case of on-line
financial transactions, you must cross-verify with the recipient before making
the payment. vii.       Install and update
Anti-virus on your devices. This is key. viii.     Do not divulge to anyone via telephone,
e-mail, any personal information such as Passwords, PIN numbers, ATM Cards
numbers etc According to Magu, “there is no online testing for
COVID-19; such online link requesting for personal information to test for the
corona virus, or provide a Do-It-Yourself (DIY) method, is part of these
fraudulent new methods aimed at defrauding Nigerians of their hard-earned
money, please beware“. The EFCC’s boss also
cautioned against   offers of bitcoin and any offer to advertise a
business and get paid. He said, “Be wary of suspicious recommendations from
friends on Facebook and Whatsapp claiming to offer investment opportunities
they have benefited from” Magu also advised
members of the public to report any such fraudulent activity to the EFCC via
its verified handle – @OfficialEFCC on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, or call
the hotline: +234 8093322644.