 A
reputable crowd-funding platform, Giving.ng, has announced a fundraising
campaign to support health workers who are on the front-line of the coronavirus
pandemic. Companies
and individuals have offered support in various forms as a means of showing
their support towards the fight against coronavirus such as cash donation,
material support as well as the provision of infrastructure but none is
speaking to the need of the health workers. This initiative seeks to do just
that. Tagged
Health Workers Fund, this initiative is sourcing from the public a sum of One
Billion Naira (N1, 000, 000, 000). The fund will be disbursed to frontline
medical workers as Hazard Allowance. The health workers have needs and earn
only N5, 000 a month as Hazard Allowance. “We
are delighted to call for support for our amazing health workers, who toil day
and night to keep this pandemic out of Nigeria. We believe members of the
public and corporate organizations should donate to this worthy cause because
it is for the safety of all. This initiative aims to increase the paltry sum
our health workers receive as Hazard Allowance,” said Peju Ibekwe,
Sterling One Foundation’s Head, in a statement. She
adds, “We understand the importance of doing our part in supporting our
local health workers, to give them the necessary motivation to combat this
infectious disease which can endanger everyone.” According
to Chief Operating Officer, Sterling Bank PLC, Raheem Owodeyi, Sterling Bank
believes that “Being a responsible company means not just serving and
benefiting from an interconnected world but taking steps to care for the
well-being of everyone, especially in times like this. We encourage everyone
across the country – our employees, agents, customers, SMEs, partners, and
corporate Nigeria – to step up and show their support.” Sterling
Bank PLC has donated a sum of Twenty-five Million Naira (N 25, 000, 000) to the
fund. You
too can contribute your quota. Make your donations by visiting www.giving.ng/covid19.