 My dear Lagosians, greetings. Yesterday, I announced the discharge
of one more patient at our Infectious Disease Hospital, Yaba. Today, I am happy to inform you that
five more patients comprising two males and three females including a 10 year
old girl have tested negative twice consecutively to #COVID19 and have been
discharged to reunite with their families. This brings to 29 the total number
of patients who have fully recovered and discharged from our facility at Yaba. It is however sad that the State has
recorded another death, bringing to two the total number of deaths from COVID19
in Lagos State. Although, there is a strong
indication that the State is winning the battle against the disease which is
ravaging several countries across the world but we need to remain steadfast and
aggressive to curtail the spread. I need to reiterate that the result
of tests conducted by our health workers on the recovered patients is a confirmation
that they pose no threat to the community. I will like to use this opportunity
to advise Lagosians against stigmatising the discharged patients as this act
could bring feelings of shame, hopelessness and despair. We need to do all we
can to support them in whatever form to get over the memories as soon as
possible. I wish to thank our frontline health
workers who are taking good care of the patients, members of the Lagos State
Health family and the Emergency Operation Centre for their kindness and
flexibility in managing the patients and checking the spread of the disease. As the disease ravages countries all
over the world, Lagos State will continue to do the needful in terms of
responding to emergencies in an effort to ensure the health and wellbeing of
our people. We will do our best to make sure that other patients at the
facility receive the best of care and attention so that they can return home to
join their families and the community soonest. In order to contain the spread of
the disease, I strongly advise you to continue observing Social Distancing. Let
us remain indoors and shun the temptation to breach the presidential
restriction that has been placed on our state so that the gains recorded so far
are not eroded. You should regularly and thoroughly
wash your hands with soap and clean, running water and where water is not
readily available, an alcohol-based hand sanitizer can be used. It has come to our notice that some
of our youths still engage in sporting and related activities, this is very
unfortunate. This act could jeopardise our efforts and the laudable intention
of the lockdown. I therefore advise you to adhere strictly to our instructions
so that together we can win the battle. Thank you. Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu April 5, 2020