 Police
Operatives have arrested the killers of Mrs Funke Olakunrin, daughter of the
leader of the PAN-Yoruba socio-cultural organization, Afenifere, Chief Reuben
Fasorantin. DCP
Frank Mba, the force spokesman, who announced this in a statement Thursday
listed the  suspects thus:Lawal Mazaje ‘m’
40yrs from Felele area of Kogi State ; Adamu Adamu ‘m’ 50yrs from Jada area of
Adamawa State; Mohammed Shehu Usman ‘m’ 26 years from Illela area of Sokoto
State and Auwal
Abubakar ‘m’ 25yrs from Shinkafi area of Zamfara State The
Force HQ recalled  that on 13th July,
2019, following the attack and murder of Mrs Funke Olakunrin by unknown persons
between Kajola and Ore along Ondo-Ore road in Ondo State on 12th July, 2019,
the Inspector General of Police, IGP M.A Adamu, NPM, mni deployed the
Commissioner of Police in charge of the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad
(FSARS), CP Fimihan Adeoye, to coordinate the team of Police Special Forces and
seasoned investigators from the Force Criminal Investigations Department (FCID),
Federal SARS, Intelligence Response Team (IRT) and the Technical Intelligence
Unit (TIU) from the Force Headquarters, Abuja to carry out massive manhunt for
the killers with the aim of arresting and bringing them to justice. Meanwhile,
after months of relentless efforts to apprehend the killers, the Police Team,
on 4th March, 2020 during a follow-up action on a case of a
high-profile armed robbery and kidnap for ransom that occurred in Ogun State,
arrested one Auwal Abubakar ‘m’ 25yrs, an accessory after the fact of the
crime, along Sagamu-Ore expressway in Ondo State. The arrest of Auwal Abubakar
led to the arrest of two (2) other members of the gang, Mohammed Shehu Usman
and Lawal Mazaje in Benin, Edo State from whom cache of ammunition was
recovered and one other Adamu Adamu in Akure, Ondo State. According to the Force Headquarters, having
established sufficient physical and forensic evidence linking the suspects to
the killing of Mrs Funke Olakunrin, the investigators, determined to clear all
doubts relating to their findings, on 8th April, 2020, conducted an
Identification Parade at the Federal SARS Headquarters, Lagos which led to the
positive and physical identification of three (3) suspects, Adamu Adamu, Lawal
Mazaje and Mohammed Shehu Usman by a survivor of the earlier crime. The
survivor gave a clear description of the roles each of the identified suspects
played in the killing. At this point, the suspects capitulated and voluntarily
offered a no-holds-barred confession on how Mrs Funke Olakunrin was killed. Investigations
so far revealed that the operation that led to the killing was carried out by
eight (8) fully armed kidnap/robbery suspects led by one Tambaya (other name
unknown) who is currently at large. While four (4) of the suspects
(mentioned above) are in custody, effort is being intensified to arrest the
four (4) others still on the run. The 8-man gang has their operational base and
membership spread in the south-western part of the country and Edo State.
Investigations have also revealed that they are responsible for series of
high-profile armed robbery and kidnap operations in the region. They also
attack, vandalize and steal components of critical national infrastructures
such as electrical and telecommunications installations. Consequently,
the Inspector General of Police  has
declared the principal suspect, Tambaya (other names unknown) wanted for his
involvement in the death of Mrs Funke Olakunrin. Tambaya, a Nigerian, speaks
Hausa, Fulfulde and Pidgin English languages. He is fair in complexion and in
his late 20s – between the age of 27 and 30. His last known address is Isanlu,
Kogi State. He has visible scar from stitches on his forehead down to his nose
and mouth. Meanwhile,
the IGP   also expressed appreciation to  Nigerians for the patience and support to the
Police throughout the period of the investigations into the unfortunate
incident. He assured that the suspects will be diligently prosecuted on
completion of investigations and that the Force will not relent until every
member of the gang, still at large, is arrested and brought to book.