By Chimezie Godfrey The Nigerian Police Special Tactical Squad (STS), says it has smashed a two-man car stealing gang and recovered 21 stolen cars of different makes, arms and ammunition. In a statement by the Spokesperson of Force Headquarters, DCP Frank Mba on Tuesday said the arrest of Bashir Isiaku took efforts and investigations by operatives. He added that Isiaku, aged 34 is notorious for stealing cars from the park of the Jos University Teaching Hospital (JUTH). “The arrest of Bashir, a graduate of one of the Federal Polytechnics, came after painstaking efforts and investigations by operatives of the STS to hunt down the criminals. Bashir and his accomplice, Aminu Yakubu specialized in using customized master key, crafted out of screwdriver to open and start vehicles. “Police investigations show that their choices of cars are ones without special security features such as pedal or steering locks. “A total of twenty-one (21) vehicles have so far been recovered from the hoodlums and their criminal receivers,” he stated. Mba disclosed that criminal receivers of stolen vehicles have also been tracked and apprehended, and the vehicles recovered. “The following criminal receivers have also been arrested: in Funtua – Rilwanu Garba, Ibrahim Hassan, Kabiru Aliyu, Sikiru Danjuma, Bashir Abba; in Sokoto – Dodo Danbello, Mudeen Adelera, Nasiru Bello, Hassan Bawa; in Kucheri – Magazine Garba; in Tsafe – Yushehu Abdullahi;  in Gusau – Abdurazaq Adekoya; and in Marafa – Kabiru Aliyu. “The recovered vehicles comprise 2 Opel Vectra, 1 Toyota Camry, 1 Honda CRV, 2 Toyota Carinae, 7 Golf-3, 1 Toyota Corolla, 6 Honda Civic and 1 Toyota Avensis. The suspects claimed that they found it easy to steal in JUTH due to the lax security at JUTH premises. “Police  investigations revealed that their choice cars are Toyota products, Honda products, and Volkswagen especially the Golf brand because these brand of cars are in high demand by criminal receivers, either in whole or in parts across the country and other neighboring countries,” he said. He advised members of the public, whose cars were stolen between January 2019 and March 2020, within the premises of Jos University Teaching Hospital (JUTH), to come forward for possible identification and recovery. He also urged Nigerians to take extra measures to secure their cars by utilizing special security features such as steering or pedal locks, tracking systems, among others. He further urged institutions and organizations to enhance security and access control within their premises to minimize the possibility of theft and other mischief by criminals. Mba also disclosed that a 28 year old female armourer was arrested along with her criminal gang. “Similarly, a 28 year old female armourer, Fatima Garba has been arrested alongside her gang of kidnappers and armed robbers, notorious for attacking innocent Nigerians around Sokoto, Kebbi, Kaduna and Niger States. “As an armourer, Fatima was responsible for ensuring the safety of the weapons used by the gang whenever not in use. “Fatima, who confessed of being the gang’s armourer for over a year, claimed to receive a handsome reward each time the weapons were returned to her after each operation. “She acknowledged knowing that the arms which she usually kept in a neatly dug hole in her compound were used for robberies, kidnapping and other criminal purposes,” he said. According to Mba, investigations revealed that Fatima, who is a trader and single mother of two was recruited by her boyfriend Abubakar Usman. “Other members of the gang include, Samaila Usman ‘m’ aged 28, Mohammed Ibrahim ‘m’ aged 30, Mohammed Agali ‘m’ aged 22, Dahiru Bello ‘m’ aged 33, Shamsu Mohammed ‘m’ aged 30, Mohammed Usman ‘m’ aged 37, Umar Abdullahi ‘m’ 33, Buhari Abubakar ‘m’ aged 33 and Abubakar Garba ‘m’ aged 37. Since they began operations, the gang is estimated to have made over twelve million naira from their various criminal escapades. “Recovered from the gang are, 5 AK47 rifles, 1 G3 rifle, 1 Berretta pistol, 1476 rounds of ammunition,  36 rounds of G3 ammunition, 6 AK47 magazine, 1 operational vehicle, 8 mobile phones, Box containing operational tools. “All  the suspects will be charged to court at the conclusion of investigations.” Meanwhile, the Inspector-General of Police, IGP Muhammad Adamu, has assured Nigerians of the continued commitment of the Force to the protection of lives and property and rid the country of crime and criminality especially during this lockdown period.