 The Nigerian Supreme Council for
Islamic Affairs (NSCIA) has ordered  the suspension of annual Tafsir
sessions and congregational Tarawih prayers during  the upcoming Ramadan
in various mosques to contain the spread of the Coronavirus (Covid-19). The NSCIA gave this directive in a
statement by the Director, Administration  Mr Yusuf Nwoha, in Abuja. He said, the decision was reached at
the end of stakeholders engagement of the General Purpose Committee meeting of
the council in National Mosque, Abuja. ” The General Purpose Committee of
the NSCIA under the leadership of its President-General, His Eminence, Alh.
Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar, in view of the current COVID-19 pandemic considered
the reports of the Fatwa Committee and the Ad-hoc Committee on COVID-19 and
observed that. ” Scholars of Islam throughout
the world are unanimous that the Prophet of Islam warned against the spread of
contagious diseases and urged Muslims to prevent the spread. ” The closure of the two Holy
Mosques in the Kingdom of Saudi-Arabia for both congregational worship and
social functions, which is applauded by Islamic Scholars throughout the world,
is a pointer to its compliance to the Prophetic teachings on the subject
matter” he said. He noted that, one of the obligatory
religious activity such as the weekly friday prayers was suspended as part of
measures to prevent the spread of coronavirus among muslims. ”Jum’ah, as an obligatory religious
activity, which is temporarily suspended to prevent the spread of COVID 19
outweighs the performance of any meritorious religious act such as congregational
Tarawih and the conduct of Tafsir. ”Consequently, the Council directs
that congregational Tarawih in the Mosque and the va1rious Majalis Tafsir
(sessions) and I’tikaf during the month of Ramadan of 1441 A.H be suspended. “Individual Scholars and Organisations are therefore encouraged to employ available means of disseminating information such as radio, television, other virtual facilities, print, social and traditional media for dissemination of tafsir and other da’awah activities” he said(NAN).