 In the wake of the COVID-19 threat, a Social
Security and Health Insurance Law for all Nigerians is the most important issue
at the moment, the Human Environmental Development Agenda (HEDA Resource
Centre) said on Wednesday. In a letter addressed to President, Mohammadu
Buhari on Wednesday, the group urged the Nigerian leader to compel the Health
Ministry to initiative Social Security and Health Insurance Law that will cover
every Nigerian irrespective of class or status. Buhari was also asked to give
express instructions to ban public office holders from going abroad for health
related issues with a moratorium of one year to enable the country lay the
foundation for a new beginning in the floundering health sector and allow some
of the officials transfer their health profile from foreign hospitals. He said even after dealing with the spread of the
Coronavirus pandemic, many Nigerians will face very tough economic challenges
that will leave them battered and wounded especially in the absence of any Social
Security and Health Insurance for the teeming population. “The most important issue before Nigeria now
is the urgent need for Social Security and Health Insurance. We urge President
Mohammadu Buhari to compel the Ministry of Health, in collaboration with other
relevant ministries and agencies, to initiate the bill. The law will save
millions of vulnerable Nigerians who are on the lowest point of the ladder and
will help tame the rising wave of social discontentment” HEDA said in the
letter signed by its Chairman, Mr Olanrewaju Suraju. The foremost anti-corruption group urged the
Senate and the House of Representatives to prepare themselves for a speedy
passage of the bill which will protect Nigerians from imminent economic
downturn. The group said the uprising in some parts of Nigeria due to the
lockdown was not unconnected with the poor conditions, the lack of
opportunities and the absence of any legal economic safety nets. “A social security and health insurance law
will guarantee hope for Nigerians, minimize public aggression, crime and
deviant behavior that we see on Nigerian streets today, largely induced by
poverty” Suraju said. He said many Nigerians were shocked to learn from
the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, (SGF) that he was unaware of
the state of public health in Nigeria, adding that his statement was a
reflection of the huge gap between the people and policy administrators. HEDA said the only way to cause automatic
government interest in the development of public health institutions is for
President Mohammadu Buhari to give an executive order banning political office
holders from going abroad for medical treatment. “Nigerian health facilities will remain
extremely bad, even worse than what was recently experienced by the SGF, as
long as elected public officials know that they may never need to use the
facilities since they have the option and state resources for going abroad. The
surest way now is to ban public office holders from medical trip abroad.
President Buhari needs to take that decision now” Suraju said. He said further “We need a radical approach
judging from the experience learnt due to COVID-19. President Buhari should
issue an executive order banning all public officers from seeking medical test
and treatment abroad, with a moratorium of one year for the uplifting of our
health facilities and transfer of their medical records to Nigeria.” He said the only exception is that medical
treatment abroad should be restricted to referral from competent medical
personnel and can only be in those areas where local capacity is lacking,
adding that such referrals must be investigated by the EFCC, due to the
compromise of many medical officials who collect bribe to procure fake medical
reports for political office holders either, either to evade litigation or to
leave the country for other purposes. This sad compromise of some medical
personnel is present in both public and private hospitals.