 Payments to the poorest and most
vulnerable households through the Conditional Cash Transfer (CCT)
Programme   continued in parts of the country over the weekend, while
similar payments will commence in more states across the country on Monday, the
National Cash Transfer Office has disclosed. A statement  by the
Communications Officer of the National Cash Transfer Office (NCTO), Henry
Ayede, explained that the payments made on Saturday in Anambra, Katsina, Yobe
and Nasarawa states among others, were in continuation of the bi-monthly
payment of stipends to beneficiaries which has been ongoing since 2016. Mr Ayede said on the instruction of
President Muhammadu Buhari, each beneficiary among the poorest and most
vulnerable households is paid    N20,000 covering four months from
January to April 2020  during the lockdown to cushion the economic effects
of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Communications Officer dismissed
as false a statement by the Ohanaeze Youth Council, in which it accused the
Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development of
allocating benefits of the program sectionally by excluding the South
East. He emphasised that the program did
not marginalise any group of people, or region in the country, adding that the
ongoing roll-out is national in scope. “No zones or groups of people are
excluded from this programme. Whether from the North or the South. States in
South East are either being paid or would be paid within the next one week. For
instance, in the last three days, beneficiaries from several local governments
in Anambra State have received payments,” he said. As of today, we have paid 2,334
beneficiaries in Anambra State; payments will continue throughout next week.
Anambra has a total of 8,105 beneficiaries who would be paid  next week.
Imo State state has 7,201 beneficiaries who would be paid soon. “Imo, Taraba, Rivers, Plateau,
Oyo, Niger, Kwara, Kogi, Kano, Kaduna, Gombe, Ekiti, Cross River, Benue and
Bauchi States would begin to receive their payments next week.” the 
statement explained. “After the President had instructed
that payments to the poorest and most vulnerable Nigerians be made, the
Honorable Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social
Development, Sadiya Umar Farouq, directed that the number of those benefitting
from the programme should be expanded, and payments should commence immediately
to the poor and vulnerable households. In compliance, payments commenced
earnestly in Jigawa, Nassarawa, Sokoto, Katsina, FCT, Yobe, and Anambra States.
The rollout next week would cover 15 states across the country,” Mr Ayede
stated.