 As part of its contribution to build a
robust healthcare for Nigeria, the Oil and Gas Industry has expressed its
readiness to embark on the construction of, at least, two hospitals and a world
class diagnostics center in each of the geopolitical zones in the Country, in
addition to the 250 temporary bed facilities that it offers to support
government’s efforts in the fight against Coronavirus pandemic. Group
Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mallam
Mele Kyari, made this known while speaking Monday on an African International
Television (AIT) morning programme: MoneylinewithNancy, in Abuja. Mallam
Kyari stated that the hospitals and the world class diagnostics centers would
be an addition to the regular Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives
of the Upstream and Downstream companies, as well as service providers
operating in the Oil and Gas Industry. A press release by the Group General
Manager, Group Public Affairs Division of the NNPC, Dr. Kennie Obateru, quoted
Mallam Kyari as saying that all commitments from the Industry would be
collected in kind and handed over to the
Presidential Taskforce for the Control of Coronavirus (Covid-19), stressing that
the Petroleum Industry would use its clear and transparent governance
framework, collection and distribution processes already emplaced in respective
companies to support the country’s healthcare infrastructure in this troubling
times. “We and all our partners, comprising the
Upstream, Downstream and service providers, decided to come together to respond
in three thematic areas. First is the provision of medical consumables such as
facemasks and testing kits among others. Secondly, the medical logistics and
patients’ support issues such as ventilators and oxygen generating plants. The
third leg is provision of temporary isolation centres and the establishment of
permanent medical infrastructure that will be of use during this period and
after the pandemic is stemmed. We believe this pandemic will eradicated,”
Mallam Kyari explained. He informed that the Oil and Gas
Industry in the Country would liaise with the various state governments and
emplaced a sustainable and efficient governance structure to manage the health
facilities established by the Industry long after COVID-19 has been brought
under control. “Nigerians will recall that last week,
NNPC and our partners in the Upstream, Downstream and services sector launched
an Industry-wide collaborative initiative in support of the ongoing Federal
Government’s efforts to curb the COVID-19 pandemic.  The total commitment
to this initiative now amounts to N21billion and it is growing and
potentially it is going to grow,” Mallam Kyari quipped. The NNPC GMD stated that the
distribution of the committed items would be under the stated three-thematic
areas of the initiative, adding that considering supply chain constraints, all
committed items cannot be delivered and distributed all at once. According to him, NNPC and partners have
a streamlined programme for the distribution of these items on weekly basis to
the nook and cranny of the nation from the three clearing houses in Abuja,
Lagos and Port Harcourt. “This is the hallmark of “Good Corporate
Citizenship,” which the Oil & Gas Industry is known for. We remain
accountable to Nigerians and will continue to provide details of what has been
collected, how it’s distributed and where it’s being delivered to, the helmsman
of the Nigeria State Oil Firm enthused. Responding
to a question on whether or not the government was still paying subsidy on
petrol, Kyari said, “There is no subsidy and it is zero forever, adding that
going forward there would be no resort to either subsidy or under recovery of
any nature. NNPC will play in the marketplace, it will just be another marketer
in the space. But we will be there for the country to sustain security of
supply at market price.” Mallam
Kyari stated that NNPC was a transparent organisation, saying the National Oil
Company was probably the only company in the world that publishes its monthly
financial and operations reports. He
said the corporation was proud of the initiative, stressing that he guaranteed
Nigerians of NNPC’s commitment and observance of transparency and
accountability in all its transactions. He
disclosed that as at yesterday Nigeria produced 2.3million barrels of crude
oil, including condensates even as he maintained that the plan was for the
country to ramp up production to 3million barrels per day in the nearest
future. Mallam
Kyari said Nigeria was endowed with premium crude oil grades which is supplied
to Europe, Asia and India, stressing that despite the COVID-19 pandemic which
has affected demand and supply fundamentals, all of Nigeria’s export terminals
are still in operations. “The
key issue in crude oil business is market fundamentals of demand/supply. I
believe #COVID-19
will subside and countries will come back to life. I don’t see oil price going
below the $20 we saw last week. I’m certain, all things being equal, oil price
will bounce back,” Mallam Kyari informed. The
NNPC’s helmsman assured Nigerians of ample supply and distribution of petroleum
products, saying despite the Coronavirus pandemic, the corporation had in stock
about 2.6billion litres of petroleum products that could service the country’s
energy needs for the next two months. He
stated that the NNPC was collaborating with all relevant stakeholders to ensure
that the supply and distribution value chain is not disrupted to guarantee
energy security for the country.