 Ghanaian President Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo has announced the lifting of the partial lockdown in Accra and Kumasi. He made this known in his address to the Citizens Sunday April
19,2020. He said, “I have taken the decision to lift the three (3) week old restriction on movements in the Greater Accra Metropolitan Area and Kasoa, and the Greater Kumasi Metropolitan Area and its contiguous districts, with effect from 1am on Monday, 20th April. In effect  tomorrow  will see the partial lockdown in Accra and Kumasi being lifted.” He added, “I must make it clear, at the outset, that lifting these restrictions
does not mean we are letting our guard down. All other measures are still
firmly in place. For the avoidance of doubt, the earlier measures announced on
Wednesday, 15th March, which have been extended, are
still very much in force, and have not been relaxed. I am demanding even
greater adherence to these measures. “In here, I am referring to the suspension of all public gatherings, including
conferences, workshops, funerals, parties, nightclubs, drinking spots, beaches,
festivals, political rallies, religious activities and sporting events. All
educational facilities, private and public, are to remain closed.” His address: ADDRESS TO THE NATION BY PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC,  NANA ADDO DANKWA AKUFO-ADDO,  ON UPDATES TO GHANA’S ENHANCED RESPONSE TO THE CORONAVIRUS PANDEMIC, ON SUNDAY, 19TH APRIL, 2020. Fellow Ghanaians, good evening, Today, Sunday, 19th April, 2020,
is exactly three (3) weeks since I came to you and announced the imposition of
restrictions to movement in the Greater Accra Metropolitan Area and Kasoa, and
the Greater Kumasi Metropolitan Area and its contiguous districts. I explained,
at the time, that the decision was taken to give Government the opportunity to
try to contain the spread of the virus, scale-up effectively the tracing of
persons who had come into contact with infected persons, test them for the
virus, and, if necessary, quarantine and isolate them for treatment, should
they prove to be positive for the virus. This decision to restrict
movement has occasioned a number of severe difficulties for all of us across
the country, especially for the poor and vulnerable, and not only for those
resident in the affected areas. Let me express my gratitude to all of you for
bearing with Government, all health workers, and with members of our security
services, throughout this period. I requested all of us to sacrifice for our
collective good, and we have been doing just that. I thank all our healthcare
workers, the men and women of our security services, and members of the media,
for the work they are doing in helping to combat the spread of the virus. Let
me also thank the individuals and organisations who have made contributions to
the COVID-19 National Trust Fund. It is truly appreciated. Fellow Ghanaians, since the
first two (2) cases of infections were recorded on our shores, we have, till
date, traced some eighty-six thousand (86,000) contacts, out of which we have
test results of sixty-eight thousand, five hundred and ninety-one (68,591)
contacts. There is, thus, a backlog of some eighteen thousand (18,000) tests
whose results are yet to be received. The overwhelming majority of these
contacts have been established in the last three weeks of the partial lockdown
in Accra and Kumasi. Out of this number, 2 one thousand and forty-two (1,042) persons, i.e. 1.5%, have
been confirmed as positive, with sixty seven thousand, five hundred and
forty-nine (67,549), i.e. 98.5%, testing negative; ninety-nine (99) persons
have recovered and have been discharged; and nine hundred and thirty (930)
persons, who have been isolated, are responding to treatment either in their
homes or in treatment facilities. These nine hundred and thirty (930) persons,
after their treatment, will soon undergo the mandatory two (2) tests to
determine if they have also recovered from the virus or otherwise. The main
reason our country has seen an increase in the number of confirmed cases over
the last three (3) weeks is because of the decision we took aggressively to
trace and test contacts of infected persons. This has enabled us to identify
and isolate infected persons, protect the population from further infections,
and contain better the spread of the virus. Indeed, Ghana is the only other
country in Africa to have conducted more than sixty thousand tests, and we are
ranked number one (1) in Africa in administering of tests per million people. The decision
to impose restrictions on movement was backed by the data at hand, and our next
course of action, again, is backed by data and by science. Indeed, all that
Government is doing is intended to achieve five (5) key objectives – limit and
stop the importation of the virus; contain its spread; provide adequate care
for the sick; limit the impact of the virus on social and economic life; and
inspire the expansion of our domestic capability and deepen our self-reliance. It is
important to state, at the very onset, that scientists at the University of
Ghana have successfully sequenced genomes of the virus responsible for the
COVID-19 pandemic, obtaining important information about the genetic
composition of viral strains in fifteen (15) of the confirmed cases in Ghana.
This is a significant milestone in Ghana’s response to the pandemic, as it will
strengthen surveillance for tracking mutations of the virus, and aid in the
tracing of the sources of community infections in people with no known contact
with confirmed cases. The Ghanaian scientific community is to be warmly
applauded for this advance and contribution to global knowledge. Their work
makes us proud to be Ghanaian, and, who knows, God may work through them to
discover a vaccine. What a triumph that would be! Indeed, the recent genomic
characterisation of African Coronaviruses by our own 3 scientists illustrates the need to establish the enabling
framework for sustainable vaccine manufacturing in Africa. We must advance
African-led partnerships to drive scientific innovations for the control of
viral diseases by vaccination. Ghana, recognising this critical public health
tool, will support the African Vaccine Manufacturing Initiative, which is
chaired by Noguchi’s Prof William Ampofo, to promote the agenda for vaccine
development and manufacturing in Africa by Africans for the world. Government has
also introduced the use of drones to expedite the transportation of samples to
laboratory centres. On Friday, 17th April,
for example, fifty-one (51) samples were delivered from the Omenako Drone
Distribution Centre to Noguchi. Furthermore, we are introducing rapid results
testing to augment our surveillance and enhanced contact tracing efforts, so
that we can quickly isolate and treat confirmed cases. From the
sixty-eight thousand, five hundred and ninety-one (68,591) samples tested, we
have been able to understand better the dynamism of the virus, map out its
geographic footprint, and establish current and potential hotspots. We have
also been able to isolate and educate asymptomatic carriers, and, thereby, help
minimise the spread of the virus. So far, it has
been established that the virus was imported into our midst from foreign
shores, and is being spread through person to person contact. The majority of
persons infected in Ghana have mild to no symptoms at all, whilst a very small
number have required hospital treatment, out of which nine (9) persons, with
underlying ailments, have died. Towards
treatment, we have expanded and added to our network of COVID-19 treatment
centers, with the Ga East and Bank of Ghana Hospitals being one hundred percent
(100%) dedicated to the fight. In addition, we have set aside separate COVID-19
treatment centres at the University of Ghana Medical School Hospital, the
Korle-Bu Teaching Hospital, Komfo Anokye Teaching Hospital, Kumasi South
Hospital, and in other designated Regional and District Hospitals. Last Friday, I
was honoured to do the virtual sod-cutting ceremony for the construction of a
100-bed Infectious Disease and Isolation Facility at the Ga East Municipal
Hospital, which is being funded through a public-private 4 partnership, under the leadership of the Ghana COVID-19
Private Sector Fund., and whose construction, with the assistance of the
48-Engineer Regiment of the Ghana Armed Forces, will be completed in six (6) weeks.
Members of the Private Sector Fund have, indeed, acted like citizens, and not
spectators, in these testing times for our country, and their patriotism is to
be loudly praised. We have also
scaled up the domestic production of personal protective equipment, and our
health care facilities, so far, have taken delivery of fourteen thousand, five
hundred and fifty (14,550) scrubs, eleven thousand, nine hundred (11,900)
gowns, nineteen thousand, nine hundred and eighty (19,980) head covers, two
hundred and sixty three thousand, two hundred and eighty one (263,281) nose
masks, thirteen thousand, and two (13,002) N-95 nose masks. Forty-one thousand,
one hundred and seventeen (41,117) varying sizes of sanitizers have also been
produced locally and delivered to our health facilities. The
enhancement of our capacity to test has been made possible by the dedication of
the expanded teams at Noguchi Memorial Institute for Medical Research, the
Kumasi Centre for Collaborative Research, and the National Public Health
Reference Laboratory. Further, we are making significant investments in the
laboratories at the Veterinary Laboratory, Accra, the Centre for Scientific and
Industrial Research Laboratory, Accra, the Police Hospital, the 37 Military
Hospitals, the University of Health and Allied Sciences in Ho, the Veterinary
Services Department in Sekondi-Takoradi, the Public Health Laboratory in
Tamale, the War Memorial Hospital in Navrongo and the Cape Coast Teaching
Hospital, so they can also use PCR Technology. We are recalibrating one hundred
(100) Regional and District Tuberculosis Gene Expert Laboratories across the
country, to help ensure that we have a minimum situation of one testing centre
per region. Fellow
Ghanaians, in view of our ability to undertake aggressive contact tracing of
infected persons, the enhancement of our capacity to test, the expansion in the
numbers of our treatment and isolation centres, our better understanding of the
dynamism of the virus, the ramping up of our domestic capacity to produce our
own personal protective equipment, sanitisers and medicines, the modest
successes chalked at containing the spread of the virus in Accra and Kumasi,
and the severe impact on the poor and vulnerable, 5 I have taken the decision to lift the three (3) week old
restriction on movements in the Greater Accra Metropolitan Area and Kasoa, and
the Greater Kumasi Metropolitan Area and its contiguous districts, with effect
from 1am on Monday, 20th April. In effect, tomorrow will see
the partial lockdown in Accra and Kumasi being lifted. I must make it
clear, at the outset, that lifting these restrictions does not mean we are
letting our guard down. All other measures are still firmly in place. For the
avoidance of doubt, the earlier measures announced on Wednesday, 15th March, which have been extended, are still very much in
force, and have not been relaxed. I am demanding even greater adherence to
these measures. In here, I am
referring to the suspension of all public gatherings, including conferences,
workshops, funerals, parties, nightclubs, drinking spots, beaches, festivals,
political rallies, religious activities and sporting events. All educational
facilities, private and public, are to remain closed. Businesses and other
workplaces can continue to operate, observing staff management and workplace
protocols with the view to achieving social distancing and hygiene protocols. Operators of
public transport, including our buses, trotros and taxis, are to continue to
run with a minimum number of passengers, as they have been doing for the last
three weeks in maintaining social distancing. They must also continue to ensure
the maintenance of enhanced hygienic conditions in all vehicles and terminals,
by providing, amongst others, hand sanitizers, running water and soap for
washing of hands. Domestic airlines are required to adhere to the same
protocols. The Ministry
of Local Government and Rural Development, together with Metropolitan,
Municipal and District Assemblies, will continue to implement measures to
enhance conditions of hygiene in markets across the country, and expand the
policy of alternate-days-for-alternative-products to improve social distancing
in all markets. As has been
established, the overwhelming majority of confirmed cases have come from
travellers or from people who have come into contact with travellers. It is,
therefore, incumbent on us to continue to be vigilant about 6 travelers into our country until further notice, and to
congratulate the men and women of the Immigration Service and the Marine Police
Unit for their work in securing our borders. The arrest of ten (10) West
African nationals in Tamale who all tested positive for the virus; the arrest
of the six (6) Nigerian travellers who entered Ghana through unapproved routes
along the Ghana-Togo border near Aflao, who also tested positive for the virus;
and the recent arrest of ten (10) fishermen in the Western Region, who returned
from Cote d’ivoire and have been quarantined, testify to the determination of
our security services to protect our borders. I have, thus, signed an Executive
Instrument, to extend the closure of our borders for two (2) more weeks,
beginning Monday, 20th April. Like the World
Health Organisation (WHO) has recently advised, I want to encourage you to wear
a mask wherever you go, as it will help you not to contract the virus, and keep
it clean. If you own a business, or are providing a service, i.e. a barber, a
hairdresser, a tailor, a taxi driver, a trotro driver and his ‘mate’, a shop
keeper, a food seller, please do well to use a mask. The Ministry of Health
will very soon issue guidelines on face masks for public use. I entreat
religious, traditional, community and opinion leaders to partner with
government in engaging, mobilising and enforcing adherence to social distancing
and personal hygiene practices in their respective communities. As difficult as
it may be, I encourage all bereaved persons to conduct private burials of their
loved ones, but ensure that the twenty-five (25) person limit is not breached.
Indeed, some are burying their loved ones now, in order to have the final
funeral rites later. The morgues in the country are becoming full, and will, in
themselves, soon pose a public health hazard. So, let us act quickly on this. As the days go
by, and as we continue to sustain a grip on the rapid spread of the virus, the
systematic easing of these restrictions will be undertaken to bring life back
to normalcy. Definitely, we will continue to record new cases of infections,
particularly with our policy of aggressive tracing and testing. However, I want
to assure you that Government has put in place the appropriate measures to
isolate and treat them. Should there be an unexpected outburst in infections within
a community, I have put the health workers and the security services, including
the Police Service and the Armed 7 Forces, on standby, to co-ordinate a rapid response of human
and logistical resources, if necessary, to cordon, impose a curfew, trace,
test, and treat infected persons in the affected community. Indeed, the focus
of Government’s policy and action will be based on the implementation of the
3Ts, i.e. tracing, testing and treating. In any event, stay at home, unless it
is absolutely essential. The movement
of foodstuffs will continue from producing areas to the markets, and, with the
intervention of the Metropolitan, Municipal and District Assemblies, the
markets would be better organised for the sale of foodstuffs. Fellow
Ghanaians, as we fight to halt the spread of the virus, we are also engaged in
fights on two other fronts – fights we must equally win. Firstly, there
continues to be the deliberate dissemination of fake news, disinformation and
outright lies by some unpatriotic citizens about the spread of the virus since
its outbreak in the country. These acts are being orchestrated by those who
hope to benefit by seeking to sow the seeds of panic and confusion amongst the
populace at this time of national crisis. I have an unequivocal message for
those involved in these despicable acts – put an immediate stop to it, or be
held accountable for your actions. Secondly, as
has been aptly stated by the Ghana Medical Association, being infected by the
Coronavirus is not necessarily a death sentence. I have noticed, with great
concern, the stories of some persons, who have recovered from the virus, now
being confronted with another problem, i.e. stigmatization. This is not right,
as it will rather drive people away from getting screened, tested and treated.
The stigmatization of recovered persons must stop, because if the virus did not
end their lives and livelihoods, the stigma from members of their communities
should not. I know the
effects of the measures to contain the virus have been difficult for many, and
that is why I mandated the creation of the GH¢1.2 billion Coronavirus
Alleviation Programme to support households and businesses. Out of this amount,
two hundred and eighty million cedis (GH¢280 million) is being used to provide
food for the vulnerable and free water for all Ghanaians for three (3) months,
i.e. April, May and June, three hundred and 8 twenty three million cedis (GH¢323 million) is being used to
motivate our health workers, and six hundred million cedis (GH¢600 million) of
assistance is being provided to micro, small and medium-scale businesses. I
expect disbursements of the six hundred million cedis to start in May. Further,
Government is fully absorbing electricity bills for one million active lifeline
customers, and is granting a fifty percent (50%) subsidy on electricity bills
of all other customers, using their March 2020 bill as their benchmark, for the
months of April, May and June. In total, the relief on electricity will amount
to some one billion cedis (GH¢1.02 billion). Again,
Government, through the Ministry of Gender, Children and Social Protection, the
Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development, and the Ministry of Food
and Agriculture through the National Buffer Stock Company, in collaboration
with the MMDCEs and the District Disaster Management Committees, has provided
over 2.5 million cooked food packs to vulnerable persons in the affected
districts of Accra and Kumasi. Dry food packs have also been distributed, in
collaboration with the faith-based organisations, to four hundred and seventy
thousand (470,000) families in the same areas, as against the original target
of four hundred thousand (400,000). I express my profound gratitude to the
private sector and faith-based organisations, and traditional authorities for
their support in this endeavour. I also commend highly the many individuals and
private organisations who, on their own, organised hot meals and fed a number
of vulnerable people within the restricted areas. To these individuals, ayekoo
for being good neighbours to your fellow Ghanaians. As we continue
to battle this pandemic, it is imperative we plan to restore Ghana onto a sound
economic footing, and create a path towards growth and transformation. The
recent one billion United States dollar Rapid Credit Facility, secured from the
IMF, without any precondition, and approved by Parliament, will be used to help
close the financing gap that has been created by the pandemic through
shortfalls in revenues and additional expenditures. I welcome the three billion
cedi (GH¢3 billion) credit and stimulus package from the commercial banks, with
the support of the Bank of Ghana, to revitalise industries, especially in the
pharmaceutical, hospitality, services, and manufacturing sectors. The Minister
for Finance, that hardworking, outstanding national treasurer, together with
his counterpart in South Africa, as co-Chairs of the Committee of African
Finance Ministers, have been 9 leading a Pan-African effort to bring debt relief to the
continent in these difficult times. Last Friday, they achieved a nine-month
debt standstill from the World Bank for all qualifying members of the
International Development Association (IDA), starting from 1st May, 2020, totalling some forty-four billion United States dollars
($44 billion) for the countries of Africa. In the case of Ghana, this amounts
to a freeze in principal and interest payments for the year, amounting to some
five hundred million United States dollars ($500 million). This will create
greater fiscal space to help make the Ghanaian economy much more resilient. I
have charged the Finance Minister to leave no stone unturned to achieve an even
greater and comprehensive debt relief programme for Africa. Our success in
defeating the virus is largely within our control. That means each and every
one of us must exercise, at all times, during this period without the partial
lockdown in Accra and Kumasi, a strong sense of selflessness, self-control and
self-discipline. It is
important to stress strongly that coming out of the partial lockdown in Accra
and Kumasi does not mean we are out of the pandemic. We will continue to
monitor closely events in some hotspots in the Greater Accra Metropolitan Area
like Weija Gbawe, Ga East, and Ayawaso East Municipalities, and Tema
Metropolis, and in the Eastern Region, like Asuoygaman and Lower Manya Krobo
Districts. Whenever the situation so warrants, a community in which the virus
is identified as becoming prevalent will be locked-down, until there is a clear
understanding of the trajectory of the virus that will allow us to contain it. We must obey
the measures still in place, including the new ones, because we know our
survival depends on them, and, the harder we are on ourselves in obeying them,
the quicker and more enduring will be the victory. To Ghanaians
in all parts of the world, I urge you to remain steadfast in abiding by the
rules and regulations that have been put in place by your host countries to
combat the virus, and I extend the condolences of all your compatriots at home
to all families abroad who have lost their loved ones to the virus. And, I take
this opportunity to wish our High Commissioner to the United Kingdom and
Ireland, my good friend, Papa Owusu Ankomah, who 10 has been affected by the virus, and other Ghanaians abroad
who have been so-affected, a speedy recovery. This disease
is new, it is in plain evolution, and there is, therefore, as yet, no vaccine
or cure. But we know enough to take action, and we shall be nimble and adapt as
the situation changes. We will tailor our solutions to our unique social,
economic and cultural conditions. There is no one-size-fits-all approach, but I
pledge to you that Government will do whatever is required, in our particular
circumstances, to safeguard the lives of our people, and keep our economy
going. Discipline,
self-discipline, is that strong bridge that all of us, from the safety of our
homes, in our workplaces, and in our communities, must build. We need to build
a strong bridge of self-discipline in order for us to cross over from this
difficult period of restrictions and the spread of the Coronavirus to the other
side, where total freedom to go about our normal lives awaits us. To defeat the
virus, and get there, we have to accept that we have to wash our hands,
maintain good hygiene, refrain from shaking hands, wear our masks, and practice
social distancing in all of our engagements. Fellow
Ghanaians, we are confronting one of the greatest challenges of our generation.
We have to win this battle. We have to defeat the virus. It is our behaviour
and response that will determine that. I have every confidence that,
collectively, we, Ghanaians, have it in us to rise to the occasion and become
victorious. I am very grateful for the great support you have given my
Government and I, as we steer our country out of this crisis. Continue in unity
to provide that support. This, too, shall pass, for the Battle is the Lord’s. Me da moa se
paa, mon kɔ so ntie masɛm, na yɛn nyinaa ndi nkunim. Min da nyɛ shi
waa, nyɛ yaa nɔ ni yɛ boa nwiemɔ tuɛ, koni wɔ fɛɛ wɔ ye nkuni. May God bless
us all, and our homeland Ghana, and make her great and strong. I thank you
for your attention, and have a good night.