 The Kaduna State Government on
Wednesday said food insecurity looms without collaboration against bandits
attacking rural communities in the state. The government said information
sharing with security agencies will ensure prompt response in tackling bandits
who sack communities and displace farmers via kidnapping and other forms of
banditry. The Commissioner of Internal
Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan disclosed this at Sabon Birni, Igabi
local government area, during a security-community engagement. According to the Commissioner, who
was in the company of the Garrison Commander, One Division Nigerian Army,
Kaduna, Brig-Gen. Olusegun Abai, the collaboration between locals and security
agencies remains key. He said: “Volunteering information is key in
the fight against bandits raiding our communities, kidnapping and unleashing
terror on all of us. “If we don’t collaborate, we will
all experience widespread impoverishment and famine. The reality today is, food
insecurity looms if we don’t work together to end banditry, but we are
optimistic that by the grace of God, we will overcome this challenge. “If you have information, contact
the nearest military or police formations or through the following numbers
09034000060 and 08170189999.” In his remarks, Brig-Gen Abai
encouraged the locals to remain vigilant, and to sustain a cordial relationship
with the troops deployed to the general area. He also assured them of unflinching
support in the fight against banditry, and access for collaboration. He further reiterated the appeal for
information sharing, which he added, is imperative in consolidating the success
achieved in the fight against banditry. The meeting had in attendance, the
Commanding Officer of 2 Battalion, Lt. Col. Aernan Gbileve, Divisional Police
Officers of Rigachikun, Rigasa, Afaka and the Officer-in-charge Operation Yaki. The traditional and religious
leaders at the meeting were drawn from Sabon Birni, Ifira, Rubu, Riyawa, Afaka
Tsoho, and Pauta villages.