The Federal Government has been
asked to ensure transparency in the disbursement of the Conditional Cash
Transfer (CCT) funds to  selected needy homes across the country. The Nigerian authorities last week
announced fresh plans to distribute  cash to the poorest of the poor
households mapped across the 36 states. In a statement on Tuesday, Human,
Environmental and Leadership Prevalent Centers (HELP Center) tasked the Federal
Government to ensure the cash distribution is guided by digital dashboard to
avoid manipulations by vested interests. The statement signed by the group’s
Chairman Azeez Tajudeen, commended the Federal Government for the
initiative. He said the on ongoing disbursement
of the Conditional Cash Transfer (CCT) funds to the poorest of the poor
households across the country will meet basic need of millions of vulnerable
families in the country whose conditions have been compounded by the global
lockdown. The National Cash Transfer office
(NCTO) under National Social Investment Program (NSIP) through its tweeter
handle on  April 4 said from Monday this week, cash will be distributed to
indigent families of the poor spread across 18 states. The affected states are Niger, Osun,
Plateau, Kwara, Kogi, Benue, Gombe, Adamawa, Taraba, Kaduna, Cross River, Kano,
River, Jigawa, EKiti, Oyo, Imo and Baunch. Beneficiaries  are expected to
start collecting their Conditional Cash Transfer funds as the disbursement has
kicked off in some states including the Federal Capital Territory, (FCT). HELP Center said the ongoing
Conditional Cash Transfer (CCT) disbursement is not a new intervention program
specifically designed to relieve the effect of COVID-19 pandemic in the country
neither  is it an international donors’ support, but one of the existing
programmes carved out from $322.5 million Sani Abacha loot proceeds as a
poverty  intervention programme. Tajudeen said “other areas
covered by the Abacha loots are National Home Grown School Feeding Programme,
N-Power, GEEP-Enterprises and Empowerment Programme and the other.” He said the clarification wad
necessary in order to guide the general public as some Nigerians are being
mis-informed as if the disbursement is solely meant for COVID-19 palliative
adding that it is an outstanding transfer of CCT funds due for the
payment. “The Federal Government of
Nigeria through Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and
Social Development is charged to be more transparent on the course of
disbursement because, the poor beneficial households are critically in need of
this fund due to the serious effects of ongoing COVID-19 lockdown in some
states including FCT” Tajudeen, whose organisation receives Technical
support from Human and Environmental Development Agenda, (HEDA Resource Centre)
Nigeria-s leading anti-corruption group said He said the call for transparency
was informed by the fact that there were several challenges associated with the
National Social Investment Program in the past where the poorest beneficiaries
were being short-changed of their collected token as acclaimed by local and
international groups including but not limited to  HEDA Resources Center,
UKAIDS, ANEEJ, ICPC and other agencies that are monitoring the programme. HELP said “On maintenance of
social distancing, HELP Center enjoyed all the staffs of NSIO, concerned state
spoke persons and other agencies that involve in the disbursement to strict to
the maintenance of social distance of the people as emphasized by Federal
Government of Nigeria through which some states like Lagos and Osun have
recently passed COVID-19 emergency law in their states. To this effect, more
security agencies need to be carried along during the disbursement so that,
beneficial communities would not breach the social distance law as it
were.” He commended the Federal Government
and Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social
Development for their pro-activeness especially during COVID-19 pandemic. Tajudeen also  called on the
general public not to relent in supporting the good intension of the government
as a means of dealing with the COVID-19 fallout.