I have seen some people recounting
their personal experience with the late Malam Abba Kyari and wish to say my
little own now. It is as if our paths never crossed,
but they did about ten years ago when I was working at Leadership newspapers in
Abuja. The publisher, Mr Sam Nda-Isaiah
(whom everybody in the company calls Chairman), was Malam Abba Kyari’s close
friend. There was a time Kyari frequented
Leadership, hanging around in Chairman’s office and in the boardroom in his
austere dress. I think he was living in retirement as a top banker and found
the newspaper house a place to while away his time. I was the top man in the
Editorial Department then, as Editorial Director. I had previously worked as
the longest-serving editor of the newspaper. When Chairman constituted the
company’s first Board of Directors, he made Malam Abba Kyari and I members of
the Board. But the position was ceremonial since none of us owned a share in
the company. Nonetheless, we were attending meetings any time it was called. Chairman
called the shots mostly, but I guess he was tapping from the best brains
around. There were about ten of us on the Board, if I recall correctly. I remember a time when, during one
of the Board of Directors meetings, Mr Nda-Isaiah went into one of his known
occasional fits of anger. His bullets this time were being fired at me. He
accused me of being too soft on the editors, especially the Editor of the
daily, Ali M. Ali, who was my classmate way back in BUK. He said I could not
query Ali, and that was why some serious typographical and or grammatical
errors were manifesting in the paper. In a way, he was right. Honestly, I
found it awkward to query my friend. I had, instead, been encouraging him to
continue with his work in spite of the constant harassment he suffered from
Chairman. At a time, huge cuts on his monthly salaries as punishment for the
errors had rendered him almost without pay for two or more months, and he was
thinking of throwing in the towel. I knew we would be in trouble if Ali left
because, warts and all, he was the best hand we had as editor. Unknown to
Chairman, I was “managing” Ali’s discontent so that he would not run
away! Hence my failure/refusal to query him. Also, I knew that the errors were
not entirely the editor’s fault. He was grappling with some incompetent
staffers in the production chain, whom we could not replace right away. Some
were imposed on us. So, on that day of the Board of
Directors meeting when Chairman was yakking at me, I felt so enraged inwardly
that I did something hitherto unthinkable. As he was talking and talking and
talking and…, I simply gathered my papers, got up quietly from my chair and
walked out of the room. I could hear the deathly silence stabbing me in the
back as Chairman’s censorious words hung in the air. Everybody was aghast. In
retrospect, I should say it was like walking out on Mr. Donald Trump. As I walked quickly down the stairs,
I heard a voice calling me from behind. I knew who it was and refused to stop.
As I reached downstairs, a hand held my shoulder. It was Mr. Azu Ishiekwene,
the Managing Director. He pleaded with me to return to the meeting, please. It
took minutes before I relented, and I followed him back. The deathly silence was still
pervasive in the room as I sat down again. Nobody had said anything. Chairman
did not continue with his diatribe, but went to the next item on the agenda. I
never uttered a word again up till the end of the meeting. However, as the meeting rounded up,
Chairman closed with the remark: “And nobody should walk out on me again!
NOBODY!” As the so-called Board members filed
out of the room, Malam Abba Kyari signalled to me to wait. I sat back in my
chair, which happened to be close to his. Chairman must have noticed that we
were remaining behind as he strolled out of the room, which was adjacent to his
office down a short corridor. Malam Abba addressed me in a
soft-spoken voice, admonishing me to always contain my anger in a meeting. He
said it was better for one to decide on a course of action after the meeting,
rather than during the meeting. He expressed satisfaction with my work in the
company and my contributions during the Board meetings. He added that while Mr.
Nda-Isaiah might appear difficult to deal with, he was generally a good man and
well focused. I agreed with him entirely about Chairman and thanked him for his
fatherly advice, which I have used on several other occasions at Leadership and
beyond. A year or so later I left
Leadership, never to see Malam Abba again. When in 2015 he was named the Chief
of Staff to the President, a former colleague of mine at Leadership phoned me
and asked: “Hey, is that not that Borno man always in a white gown and red
cap who used to come to Chairman’s office and keep his face in newspaper
pages?” “Yes, he is the one,” I
replied. May the soul of Malam Abba Kyari
rest in peace, amen. 