 Kaduna State Government has revealed
that security agents  have arrested two people  for  holding
church service last Sunday, in violation of the lockdown order. A statement issued by the Commissioner
of Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan on Tuesday, said that one
Ifeanyi Ojonu and Giniki Okafor held church service at Sabon Tasha area of
Chikun Local Government. The statement further said
that the suspects have been  arraigned before a Chief Magistrate Court on
Monday, 6th April, 2020. According to the commissioner, 
the suspects were charged  with ‘’Criminal Conspiracy and Disobedience to
an Order duly promulgated by a Public Servant, under section 59 and 115 of the
Penal Code.’’ Aruwan who 
 reiterated  that nobody is above the law and everyone is equal in
the eyes of the law, said that ‘’the Quarantine Law will be applied 
without fear or favour,  until the lockdown is duly lifted.’’ The commissioner  recalled that
some Muslim clerics held congregational prayers on March 27th, 2020, at Unguwar
Kanawa and Malali areas of Kaduna North Local Government. ‘’They were promptly arrested 
and subsequently arraigned before a Chief Magistrate Court on March 30th, 2020,
to demonstrate Government’s determination to prosecute violators of the
Quarantine Law,’’ he said. According to him, the two
accused   clergymen apparently mis-read Government’s strong signal,
as they flouted the law and disobeyed the warning of various leaders of faith,
by holding church service last Sunday. The statement  commended 
religious and traditional rulers for sensitizing their followers about the
dangers of COVID-19, by asking them to obey the lockdown order as a religious
obligation. The Commissioner maintained
that  the religious community has substantially complied with the lockdown
as Muslim daily congregational prayers, including Jumma’at  prayers, have
been suspended, adding that  church services have also not been held. Aruwan  however advised
residents to report  any infringement of fundamental human rights by
either security agents or government officials,  by calling these
dedicated telephone numbers (09034000060, 08170189999)  to complain.