 Gov. Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa State has
extended by 10 days, the 24-hour curfew imposed on Karu Local Government Area
(LGA) as part of measures to contain the spread of COVID-19. Sule made the announcement on Thursday in
Lafia, while updating newsmen on the state government measures  to
contain  spread of the virus. According to the governor, the extension 
became necessary following the increasing number of confirmed cases of COVID-19
in Abuja and its proximity to Nasarawa. The Governor said: “following the expiration
of the two weeks initial 24 hours curfew, the government decided to extent it by
10 days after carefully studying situations.” He, however, said  that the curfew would
be relaxed  between 10am to 2pm on Wednesdays and Saturdays to allow
residents purchase food items from markets around their neighbourhood. Sule further explained that  the
restriction of movement from 8pm to 6am in other LGAs across the state is still
in force. The governor said that mobile Courts have been
activated in various locations in the state to prosecute violators of the
lockdown and movement  restriction directives. He said that worship centres, hotels, event
centres, clubs, markets and  shops would  remain closed except those
selling food and pharmaceutical products. Sule explained  that medical personnel
would screen travellers at boarder towns and various checkpoints to ascertain
their status. He directed security agencies to arrest
children found begging on the streets and hand them to the social welfare
department of the ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development for
sanction. On palliative to cushion the effect of
COVID-19 lockdown, Sule said  the state government had distributed over
15,600 bags of rice to the needy across the 13 LGAs. He added that more palliative materials were
underway for the people with support from the private sector. “We have gotten support of more palliatives
from the organised private sector and would soon arrive from Lagos and more
people would be included. “We also have medical equipments that would
soon arrive the state for our isolation centres,” Sule added. He, therefore, urged the people to maintain
social distancing, observe personal hygiene, wash their hands with water and
soup to curtail spread of the virus. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), recalls that
Gov Sule had proclaimed an initial 14-day  lockdown in Karu LGA, effective
from April 2, to April 16.  (NAN)
q