 …Sen Grassley’s Allegation over
$300m Abacha Loot against Magu Baseless The Economic and Financial Crimes
Commission, EFCC has raised the alarm over the recent allegation against the
Acting Chairman of the EFCC, Ibrahim Magu by the United States, US Senate’s
Chairman, Committee on Finance, Charles E. Grassley on looted funds. A statement by Tony Orilade, acting head,
media  and publicity, EFCC reiterated
that the commission is  at the forefront
of the transparent management of recovered funds and would not be dragged into
any controversy over an allegation that has no fact or any iota of proof. The EFCC  statement recalled  that the 86-year-old US Republican Senator had
in a letter dated April 1, 2020, and addressed to the Chief Money Laundering
and Asset Recovery Section of the US Department of Justice, Deborah Connor,
wrongly and maliciously accused Magu of “detaining individuals who have
spoken against the Buhari government”. Orilade said, “The allegation
clearly has no bearing with the operations of the EFCC nor address the
painstaking efforts of Magu in tackling the menace of corruption, without fear
or favour. “The EFCC is involved in the processes
of repatriation of the looted $300million by the former Head of State, the late
Gen Sani Abacha and quite aware of the tripartite agreement involving Nigeria,
the United States and Island of Jersey. Furthermore, the statement said, “As
an anti-graft agency, the Commission has credible records of managing recovered
funds and assets and it is rather unfortunate that the ranking US
Senator,  in a desperate bid to frustrate the repatriation of the funds,
clearly embraced the well-worn antics of some unscrupulous elements in the
country, who never succeeded in  blackmailing the anti-corruption crusade
of President Muhammadu Buhari. “Even the harshest detractors of Mr.
Magu know and always acknowledge his firm and bold handling of the anti-
corruption fight which continues to earn him accolades within and outside
Nigeria. The anti-graft agency recalled that “Only
recently, the US Federal Bureau of Investigation, FBI, gave an Award of
Excellence to Mr. Magu for his unique role in a joint field operation
codenamed, “Operation Rewired”.  The operation yielded great results internationally
in tackling the menace of cyber-crime. “It is worrisome that a high-ranking
US lawmaker of the status of Grassley could not get his facts rightly nor
establish a credible premise of attacking an FBI- celebrated Magu.  Would
the FBI have come out to acknowledge the effectiveness and credibility of the
EFCC under Magu’s watch, if such allegation of oppressing opposition to
President Buhari’s government had any merit?” “Besides, only recently, former
Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Mr Mohammed
Adoke (SAN), and an opposition PDP politician, poured encomiums on Magu on the
visible achievements of the EFCC under his watch. According to Adoke,
“President Muhammadu Buhari is highly celebrated for fighting corruption and
the poster boy of this celebrated achievement is clearly Magu’’ “It would interest Sen Grassley to
know that three former governors who are ranking members of the ruling All
Progressive Congress, APC, which is President Buhari’s party, are currently serving
jail terms for corruption.  Is the EFCC also persecuting members of the
President’s party? “Grassley evidently lacks any sound
basis for linking the EFCC and Magu with any oppressive or separatist agenda
against government opposition. “Records of convictions of the
Commission are in the public domain as well as cases before the courts, which
can be subjected to un-biased analysis and scrutiny. “We wish to reiterate that the EFCC
under Magu is too focused on the anti- graft agenda of the government to be
distracted by such empty claims of the lawmaker. Grassley and his sponsors are
clearly on quicksand on this issue. “The Commission remains focused on its mandate against economic and financial crimes and will not be deterred by spurious allegations from individuals with hidden agenda.”