By Tina George, Minna The Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, in Niger state, Alhaji Abdulmalik Sarkin Daji, is currently facing public outrage, for posting a video, which showed him presenting an iPhone 11 pro to his wife, at a lavish birthday party. The video drew reactions from the people of the state, few weeks after salaries of local government workers, were slashed by 20 percent. When Newsdiaryonline conducted search on the price of the iPhone 11 pro, the price of the particular was discovered to be N400,000. Apple pegged the smartphone at  $999, $1149, and $1349 for the 64GB, 256GB, and 512GB models, respectively. Some of the social media users alluded that the Commissioner had used part of the deducted salaries of local government staff to buy the gift for his wife. Others who searched for the price of the iPhone said that the amount used to buy it could have been used to pay full salaries of many staff. There were also others who said that though it was the right of a husband to present a birthday present to his wife but at this period and season, the action called for sensitivity on the plight of the people, especially for the staff whose salaries were slashed. In the video circulating on Facebook, the Commissioner threw a lavish birthday for his wife, although the video only showed the Commissioner and his wife but at the background, there were various voices and cheers when he presented his wife with the new iPhone 11 pro as a surprise birthday gift. A Facebook User, John Ekpe wrote, “this Commissioner is heartless. This shows he is making of our plight.” Another Facebook user, Aliyu Enagi commented, “25 workers salary @ N30,000 each. Allah ya karba. Imagine how many salaries this IPhone will pay?” Another Facebook user, Muhammad Teekay also wrote with an emoji of outrage, “20% of my mum’s salary”. Danjikada Agaie wrote, “See where Local Government 20% Enter ooo. May the Almighty help us…” Others made comments like, “see una 20 percent, they don use am buy iPhone”.