 The Nigerian National Petroleum
Corporation (NNPC) and its partners have donated 250 bed space and five
ambulances to support Federal Government’s efforts in containing the
Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN),
reports that the ThisDay Dome at the Central Business District is one of the
facilities that will accommodate 190-bed space and NNPC facility in Utako will
accommodate 60 beds. The minister of state for Petroleum
Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, while handing over the ambulances to the
Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr Boss Mustapha,
expressed optimism the facilities would support government’s effort. “This is not a normal time. It is
the COVID-19 times. It requires everybody’s support and collective effort. “The oil and gas industry will
continue to support all effort that will ensure the safety of Nigerians and
that is what we are doing today. “We are handing over these
ambulances and as more come, we will hand them over, safety remains paramount
to us in the industry,” he added. In his remarks, the Group Managing
Director of the NNPC, Malam Mele Kyari, said that they were at the facility for
on-the-spot assessment of the ongoing work. “We are here to assess the ongoing
work at this facility that will accommodate 190 beds. It is supported by CECC,
a construction company we all know, the private sector, and energy group. “We are happy to announce to you that
the industry has contributed N21 billion to support what government is doing,”
he said. Kyari noted that the second facility
in Utako was solely donated by the Corporation and noted that it would back it
up with Oxygen, Ventilators and a test Laboratory to complement what was
already on ground. “All the facilities will be ready in
two weeks but we pray that we will not need them,” he added. Responding, Mustapha commended the
Minister, the NNPC and all stakeholders for their kind gesture and noted that government
was committed to ensure Nigerians were safe in this period. “We are grateful for this gesture,
as you have heard, the facilities will be ready in two weeks, this is a good
step in the right direction. “We have also directed state
governments to make such provisions; we pray and hope we will not need to use
them. but it is good to be prepared, “We have seen how countries with
established system were overwhelmed, so it is better to be over prepared,” he
added. He said that the two facilities
would serve as holding bay before patients would be sent to isolation centres,
assuring that the facilities would be judiciously used for Nigerians. He noted that the presidential
Committee on COVID-19 only made request of what equipment were needed and
various sectors would go through their procurement process in getting the
equipment to them. “The Central Bank and Corporate
bodies in the banking sector has set up machinery, the people go through the
established procurement process and give accounts to the donors. “Ours is to provide them with the
needs,” he said. The SGF further urged the media and
all essential workers to ensure social distancing while carrying out their
duties and maintain healthy  hygiene as directed. (NAN)