 The Managing Director of Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA),
Hadiza Bala Usman has called on terminal operators at the nation’s seaport not
to relent on investing on facility upgrade to ensure swift trade facilitation. She stated this yesterday when she commissioned two new
multimillion dollars state-of-the-art Mobile Harbor Cranes (MHCs) acquired by
leading global terminal operator, APM Terminals, to boost service delivery at
the Apapa Port, Lagos. The new cranes were acquired as part of APM Terminals’
additional investment of $80 million (N33.6billion) for the year 2020-2021,
bringing the total investment by the company in Apapa since 2006 to $438million
(about N184billion), which is the highest by any private terminal operator in
Nigeria. APM Terminals, which is located in the nation’s premiere
seaport at the heart of Nigeria’s commercial hub, Lagos, is the biggest
container terminal in West Africa and the best-equipped port terminal in
Nigeria. While commending the management of APM Terminals for
acquiring the new cranes, Bala-Usman said the ports were concessioned by the
federal government to improve port efficiency and free government resources for
other developmental purposes. She said cargo volumes at the port have witnessed a
steady rise due to favourable government policies. Bala Usman said NPA has continued to engage with private
terminal operators at the port to rise up to the challenge of the increased
cargo traffic. She said NPA’s engagement with the operators is yielding
tangible results as evidenced by the commissioning of the two new Mobile Harbor
Cranes, among others. She said as the ports become more efficient, efforts must
be made to enhance cargo delivery process and free the ports of longstanding
cargo. “We are engaging with the Nigeria Customs Service to
remove overtime containers from the port to free vital space for incoming
cargo. “We are also working with terminal operators to increase
the barging of containers to take pressure off the roads. We have noted a
significant growth in barging capacity and operations with more containers
moved daily by barges from the port,” she said. Speaking earlier, the Head of Terminals, Africa and
Middle East region of APM Terminals, Mr. David Skov, said before now, the
company had invested USD358million (N150.36billion) in port infrastructure
development, information technology upgrades and modern cargo handling
equipment to improve both quayside and landside operations. He said, “The additional investment we are making is to
handle the increased trade volumes into Nigeria. Trade in Nigeria is growing
due to the many favorable efforts and policies of the Federal government of
Nigeria including but not limited to the policy on ease of doing business;
stabilization of foreign exchange; closure of the land borders which has
increased the use of our sea ports; and diversification of the economy. “The additional investments will create capacity to
handle the growth in the economy to support the Federal government’s efforts on
trade growth and improve service delivery across the logistic chain in
Nigeria.” He said with the acquisition of the new cranes, the
terminal now operates with a total of 10 Mobile Harbour Cranes; 23 Rubber-Tyred
Gantry Cranes; six Empty Handlers; 48 specialised Truck Terminals, six Reach
Stackers and 11 Forklifts. Other dignitaries at the crane commissioning ceremony
include the Managing Director, APM Terminals Apapa, Mr. Martin Jacob; Executive
Director, Marine and Operations of NPA, Mr. Onari Brown; the General Manager Marine and Operations, Captain
Jerome Anyugwe; the General Manager Monitoring and Regulatory Service, Mrs. Ugo Madubuike and NPA General Manager,
Security, Surveyor Omotesho. Others are the Port Manager, Lagos Port Complex
Apapa, Mrs Olufunmilayo Olotu; and the Port Manager, Tin Can Island Port, Mr.
Garba Umar. APM Terminals Apapa took over operation of the Apapa
container terminal in 2006 under the Federal Government’s port reform
programme. Before now, the company had invested heavily on
infrastructure, container handling equipment, yard expansion, modernisation of
the terminals’ IT hardware and software systems, and development of additional
capacity. The huge investment has resulted in significant
improvements in productivity, reduction in vessel waiting time and a doubling
of container volumes at the port.