 By Chimezie Godfrey The Minister, Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster
Management and Social Development  Hajia Sadiya Umar Farouq, has assured
that Persons  Living with Disabilities  would not be left out in the
Federal Government ‘s intervention aimed at cushioning the effect of Covid-19
pandemic. In a statement on Thursday, She said the palliative
are handed over to the three states affected by the lockdown for onward
distribution to the targeted beneficiaries including Persons
Living with Disabilities. The Minister gave this assurance at the
stakeholders meeting between the Minister and Persons Living with Disabilities
in Abuja. “This gathering is indeed crucial as welfare
and concern of PWDs in Nigeria cannot be over-emphasised. “The Buhari-led administration has placed
priority on assisting PWDs by coming up with policies and programmes which when
executed by the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and
Social Development will ensure inclusion and improve the wellbeing of all PWDs
in the country,” She said. Farouq further said that from the creation of the
Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social
Development on 21st August 2019, that one of the Ministry’s mandate is
developing PWDs friendly policies and welfare noting that according to World
Health Organisation (WHO) and the World Bank 2011 report that Nigeria has an
estimated 25 million persons living with disabilities. She noted that PWDs in our society  today are
faced with many barriers to inclusion in all aspects of societal life and do
not enjoy full access to societal life on an equal basis with others,
especially in the areas of transportation, healthcare, employment, education as
well as social and political participation. According to her, to address this, on my assumption
of duty as the Honourable Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management
and Social Development, l immediately appointed a Special Assistant (Special
Needs) to coordinate and liaise with PWDs in Nigeria to meet and brainstorm on
how to carter for the welfare of PWDs in tanderm with the mandate of the
Ministry on Social Affairs Intervention. Farouq reiterated Federal Government’s is
commitment towards enhancing the living conditions of all Nigerians especially
the vulnerable in the society. She also commended President Muhammadu Buhari led
administration for his commitment and dedication towards the plight of
PWDs and other vulnerable groups in Nigeria. The President, Albino Foundation of Nigeria Mr.
Jake Epelle, in his speech advocated for the creation of a department of
Disabilities and need for comprehensive data of persons living with
disabilities in the ministry. He also appealed for the appointment of a
member   PWDs on the PTF committee,   inclusion in National
Social Investment Programme and provision of palliative for PWDs among others.