 By Salihu Moh. Lukman Progressive Governors Forum Asokoro, Abuja This is dedicated in prayers to all
the unfortunate people who have tested positive of Covid-19. May God Almighty
endow humankind with the knowledge and wisdom to produce cure for the virus! Introduction As we approach April 14, 2020, the
close of the two weeks lockdown of Abuja, Lagos and Ogun, expectedly government
will be reviewing progress the nation is making in terms of containing the
spread of Covid-19 in the country. Noting that as at Sunday, March 29, 2020
when President Buhari addressed the nation and declared the lockdown, Nigeria
had 111 confirmed cases. Also, recognising that by Thursday, April 9, 2020, we
had 288 confirmed cases, an increase of 177 in 10 days, which gives an average
of at least 17 confirmed cases per day. It then means that by Tuesday, March
14, 2020, Nigerians may be expecting a minimum of another 85 confirmed cases,
which could raise the total confirmed cases in the country to more than 370. With such projection, the question
to ask is; is Nigeria’s Covid-19 curve being flattened or the country is
approaching the point when it will begin to experience the exponential rise in
the number of cases? We are told by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control
(NCDC) and especially the Lagos State Commissioner of Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi
that two important determining factors to help flattened the Covid-19 curve are
lockdown and community ownership. In the case of lockdown, it will help the
process of contact tracing, isolation, treatment and therefore confining cases
to specific location and prevent spread to other locations. Community ownership
on the other hand, will enhance the capacity of government for contact tracing,
isolation, treatment and preventing cases from being transmitted within
communities. What has been the assessment so far?
Assessment of how well as a nation, we are containing the spread of Covid-19
nationally and within communities will be critical in determinant of whether
the two weeks lockdown of Abuja, Lagos and Ogun is about to come to an end or
extended. If it is to be extended, will it also be extended to other parts of
the country? Is there any possibility that it will end in any of the three
locations (Abuja, Lagos and Ogun) on Tuesday, April 14, 2020? If records of cases from states is
any reference, with Lagos and FCT recording daily increases and now having 158
and 54 confirmed cases respectively, it simply means that the spread is on the
increase. Perhaps, Ogun state could be an exception having stablised with only
4 cases for more than a week. However, being neighbours to Lagos, and with
cases in Lagos on the increase, the possibility of relaxing or ending the
lockdown may depend on the status of Lagos. With number of cases spreading to
more states and also on the increase within states, the possibility of
extending the lockdown to other states could be high. Again with number of
cases in Osun, Edo, Oyo, Bauchi, Akwa Ibom, Kaduna, Delta, Enugu, Ekiti,
Rivers, Benue, Katsina and Ondo states respectively now being 20, 12, 11, 8, 5,
2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 1 and 1, these are readily candidates for the extension of the
lockdown to cover these states. Assuming the number of cases is to be the
determinant of whether the lockdown will be extended beyond April 14, 2020,
will that be sufficient to contain the spread? Given that after the lockdown of
Abuja, Lagos and Ogun, more states recorded new cases, wouldn’t this be
indicative of the need to have a national lockdown? Conspiracy Theories and Problems of
Ownership Factors that would influence the
final decision of government on this matter is certainly beyond the number of
cases. Other assessments including capacity to enforce compliance will also
have to be considered. Issues of support and ownership are important
considerations. Part of the big obstacle as it is today appears to be that most
Nigerians are yet to accept that Covid-19 constitute threat to their personal
lives. Narratives of false conspiracy theories being propagated across all
social strata in the country – religious, traditional, interest groups and even
medical practitioners don’t seem to be helping matters. It is either Covid-19
is associated with G5 network and all the superpower competition between China
and US, some biological warfare, politics of vaccine targeted at population
control, to the ridiculous issue of distrust and allegations of strategy to
divert public resources by political office holders in the country. The list of conspiracy theory
narratives is long and increasing perhaps on daily basis. In all, none of the
conspiracy theories dispute the fact that Covid-19 threaten human life on a
global scale. While most of the conspiracy theories are global in origin and
proven not be true empirically and scientifically, Nigerians still find them
attractive simply because somehow, almost all the narratives resonate with
Nigerians on account of inability of citizens to trust government. Sadly, not
even the alarming reports of Covid-19 cases coming from other parts of the
world is making Nigerians to consider teaming up with government to contain the
spread. Take for instance the case of the
message that was circulated in social media some few days ago, drawing
attention to experiences of countries like Italy, United States, France,
Germany, Spain and Iran that within a space of 5 – 6 weeks recorded exponential
rise in number of cases from 21, 16, 18, 18, 25 and 5 to 86,498, 100,037,
32,964, 50,178, 64,059 and 32,332 respectively. As at Friday, April 10, 2020,
these countries respectively have 143,626, 468,895, 117,749, 119,244, 153,222
and 66,220 cases. Records of death from these cases have similarly shot up to
18,279, 16,697, 12,210, 2,678, 15,447 and 4,110 respectively. These records hardly convinced
Nigerians on the need to ensure that the fight against the spread of Covid-19
in the country succeed. Instead, it is perceived by many as an attempt by
government and their supporters to divert attention from the issue of ensuring
that it (government) provide palliatives to Nigerians for the lockdown to
succeed. This opens the gate for another variant of conspiracy theory aimed at
diverting attention from some alleged corrupt practices around the execution of
the fight against the spread of Covid-19 in the country. Three issues can be used to
demonstrate this. The first was the controversy around the issue of Chinese
medical team coming to assist Nigeria. Many Nigerians, including Nigerian
Medical Association (NMA) opposed the decision of the Presidential Task Team on
Covid-19 to accept the offer of assistance from the Chinese medical team. Some
alleged that Italy began to experience exponential increases in number of
Covid-19 cases after accepting similar assistance from Chinese medical team.
The whole issue around the support being offered was reduced to sentimental
considerations. The national conversation wasn’t around the question of
evaluating preparedness to contain the spread of Covid-19. Secondly, around the same period
when the issue of the assistance from Chinese medical team dominated our media,
on Tuesday, April 6, 2020, there was the report of the session between the
leadership of the National Assembly, led by both the Senate President, Sen.
Ahmed Lawal and Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Femi
Gbajabiamila, on the one hand and Haj. Sadiya Umar Farouk, Minister of
Humanitarian Affairs and Disaster Management, on the other hand. The leadership
of the National Assembly were reported to have queried the Minister about
management of palliatives to cushion the effect of the lockdown. In particular,
there was the question of the database being used to disburse the conditional
cash transfer of N20,000 to qualified beneficiaries. The third event was the unfortunate
fire in the office of the Accountant General of the Federation on Wednesday,
April 7, 2020. Although completely unrelated to the whole question of
containing the spread of Covid-19 in the country, some Nigerians alleged that
the fire outbreak in the office of the Accountant General was because of the
insistence of the leadership of the National Assembly that all resources being
disbursed as palliative under the Covid-19 campaign, must be accounted for.
Some even alleged that N2 trillion has already been released by the Federal
Government. Across most social media platform, the allegation was that the fire
outbreak in Accountant General Office was aimed at destroying records and
therefore sabotaging any potential investigation into the disbursement of
palliatives to citizens, including the N20,000 conditional cash transfer. Shift from Containing Spread to
Management of Palliatives Although many officials of
government attempted to respond to these allegations with clarifications, which
should have helped to douse the public suspicion around issues of resource
management and disbursement, the problem of trust remains a strong factor
militating against citizens ownership of social distancing initiatives of
government, including lockdown. What is very clear is that for many citizens,
the debate is not about containing the spread of Covid-19. Rather, the issue of
management of public resources directed at cushioning the effect of the
lockdown is the main concern. As a result, unfortunately, for most
part of the period since Sunday, March 31, 2020 when the Federal Government
directed lockdown of Abuja, Lagos and Ogun commenced, government was unable to
achieve the needed public ownership of the fight against the spread of
Covid-19. Without doubt, both the Presidential Task Force (PTF), led by the Secretary
to the Federal Government, Mr. Boss Mustapha and State Governments, especially
Lagos State have been briefing Nigerians on daily basis, but given the high
focus on palliatives as requirement for the fight against Covid-19 to succeed,
the unintended national impression has been created to the effect that Covid-19
is simply a problem of government. At least, that would appear to be the
dominant perception by most Nigerians. This is quite worrisome. The fact is
that given the poor state of our hospitals, if we are unable to contain the
spread of Covid-19 in Nigeria, the experiences of Italy, Spain, United States,
France, etc. will be child play. Should that happen, records of cases and
deaths could be phenomenal. Combinations of high incidences and poor records of
citizens in the country having medical conditions bordering on tuberculosis,
high blood pressure, diabetes, asthma, etc. it is hard to imagine how, as a
nation we want to risk such a possibility. Issues of Public Engagement and
Recommendations Maybe it is the perilous nature of
our orientation that is playing out. Unfortunately, it will appear that low
engagement strategy by the PTF on the Covid-19 campaign is also reducing
citizens’ ability to own the fight against the spread in the country. This is
not in any way passing any judgment on the leadership of the PTF in the fight
against Covid-19 but to highlight areas requiring urgent attention in order
that Nigeria is able to succeed in the fight against the spread of Covid-19. What are these recommendations?
First, the PTF need to broaden the scope of its membership at two levels. It
needs to approach the question of expansion based on the strategy of using
communication to mobilise the participation of everyone both governmental and non-governmental.
Communication should not be about simply passing information to citizens about
what government is doing. It should be more about accommodating the views and
interests of Nigerians through their representatives. This can come about
through the deployment of some approaches that allows identified
representatives to interact with members of the PTF and through such
interactions influence decisions. It is good to have all senior
federal government functionaries driving the process and consulting other arms
of governments – National Assembly and Governors. This however can be
strengthened by going beyond consultations. The reality is that consultation
alone, will hardly produce the needed ownership and synergy of initiatives even
within governmental structures. In fact, one can argue that some of the
critical observations of the leadership of the National Assembly from the
session with the Minister of Humanitarian Affairs and more recently with the
PTF on Thursday, April 9, 2020 is a confirmation of the limitations of
consultations. What is required is that, depending on the terms of reference of
the PTF as given by the President, the PTF should consider co-opting members of
the National Assembly to join the Committee. Similarly, is the issue of coordinating
with states. The PTF Chairman, Mr. Boss Mustapha, has reported at least in two
of its daily media briefing sessions that they have had teleconferencing with
Governors. The reality of ensuring successful containment of the spread of
Covid-19 will however be hinged on the effectiveness of states to enforce
measures around social distancing including lockdown. Although, it is true that
the Federal Government exercises jurisdiction over agencies of law enforcement,
the truth is that in our context law enforcement alone will not guarantee
success. Some of the factors that account for this include the fact that our
law enforcement agencies are already overstretched with all the problems of
insecurity in the country. In addition, enforcement shouldn’t
be simply about compelling citizens but more about securing citizens’ consent
to abide by government instructions. If state governments are to play their
roles, there will be the need to configure the PTF in such a way that it is
able to accommodate the participation of state governments. This could lead to
the issue of possibly organising the PTF into sub-teams deployed to each
geo-political zone based on which Secretaries to State Governments and other
nominees can be also coopted into the PTF. Accordingly, instead of working from
one location in the zone they could be mobile across states in the zones. It
may even be possible that each of the zonal teams can further be sub-divide
into state teams and expand to have more membership. For instance, all Senators,
House of Representatives and State Assembly members can be part of a state team
and their membership should not add to the financial cost of the state team. In
fact, the cost of state teams may even be mobilised by the state governments
independently. Engaging Non-Governmental Actors With a mobile setup, the PTF could
be able to develop clear engagement templates for each team across all the
zones and task them to engage all social interests with the objective of
securing the buy-in of citizens to comply with government social distancing
directives including lockdown. To strengthen the PTF teams in each zone or
states as the case may be, activities should include consultative meetings with
interest groups notably traditional rulers, religious leaders, political party
leaders (multi-party), local government chairmen, organised private sector,
organised labour, civil society, women groups, persons with disability, etc. Part of the challenge will be the
question of managing financial expectations. This is a big challenge especially
given that citizens just believe that government has all the resources in the
world. Part of the issue therefore is for government and the PTF to make clear
declarations that every group and all Nigerians must be ready to make
sacrifices. If Ministers and National Assembly members are already sacrificing
their salaries, this should not be a difficult call. Perhaps, the only addition
should be that all members of the PTF at whatever level will not be entitled
for any sitting allowance. Afterall, this is really an emergency assignment
bordering on the need to provide leadership for Nigerians to contain the spread
of Covid-19 which is a threat to the lives of citizens. Public servants and
leaders should be called upon to serve based on disposition to make sacrifices.
This will remarkably help to resolve all insinuations around speculated rates
to be drawn by members of the PTF. Palliatives vs Sacrifices Once the PTF is able to configure
itself this way the issue of palliatives and how to administer it can be easily
handled. It is important that both the PTF and the Presidency are able to
correct problems of trust and ensure that it is able to minimise all
distractive debates around administering palliatives. For instance, once
schools are closed, there is no need talking of school feeding. This does not
mean, the resources for the school feeding cannot be directed to support the
families of the schoolchildren for the duration of the fight against Covid-19.
It is simply a matter of redirecting how it is disbursed. In any case, whether
we recognise that or not, so long as schools are closed, method of feeding
those children have to change. On the whole, we need to appeal to
both the PTF and Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs to try and assist the
government to refocus national conversations around the fight against the
spread of Covid-19 in the country away from issues of management of the
palliatives. In some ways, the palliatives that should be the subject of
national debate should not be the ones under the National Social Investment
Programme (NSIP). Important as the NSIP is, the PTF should be able to
deliberate on nature and scope of the palliatives and decide on how best it
should be handled in order to succeed in this critical fight against Covid-19. While considerations can be given to
utilising some of the resources domiciled in the NSIP, as much as possible
government and the PTF need to avoid a situation whereby the debate is reduced
to academic exercise. It is important that everyone in government and the PTF
is reminded about the fact that this is a fight that we must succeed. In fact,
it is a fight that required that we adopt the Machiavellian logic of the end
justify the means, which should imply that any approach that should save the
lives of Nigerians should be welcome. In particular, members of the PTF should
bear in mind that they have the overriding burden to support President
Muhammadu Buhari to succeed. Given that President Buhari’s disposition is one
of non-interference once he delegates a responsibility, allowing factors of
distractions to dominate national conversations instead of the sacrifice
members of the PTF and government officials will be making could potebntially
undermine government. On the whole, deciding on the
question of palliatives, in whatever way the PTF want to approach it should not
be about being defensive. The best approach should be to quietly change the
approach. Part of the problem associated with the current practice is that it
undermines social distancing practices including the lockout. This has to
change. One of the recommended considerations could be to ensure that
traditional, religious and community leaders commit themselves to mobilise
citizens to observe social distancing and lockdown. In other words, is it
possible to get them to participate in the process of disbursement? One of the expected criticisms could
be that non-governmental leaders may embezzle the resources. Interestingly,
this is also what is being alleged against government management of the
resources. Shouldn’t it therefore be better for government to transfer the
burden of disbursement to other non-governmental leaders and seek to strengthen
accountability through combinations of sanction and incentives? For instance,
wouldn’t it be possible to structure disbursement of the palliatives based on
some specific executions of activities to enforce social distancing? Through
this, compliance with suspension of Muslim and Christian congregations,
wedding, naming and burial ceremonies and practices could the focus, such that
qualification for disbursement in a particular community is based on level of
compliance. Other incentives such as community
recognition, which should confer access to some facilities including targeted
incentives to citizens in that community and provision of some infrastructure
may also be added. The point is that there has to be some new approaches to
entice citizens to support all government measures towards ensuring success in
the fight against the spread of Covid-19. Deployment of strategies to win the
support of citizens through active involvement of leaders across all strata of
Nigerian society will be very important. Conclusion and Appeal The message from all the countries
that have succeeded in containing or bringing the spread of Covid-19 under some
control is very clear. Government will only succeed based on citizens’ support.
Such a support is only possible if citizens are able to trust government, on
the one hand, and on the other hand, government also able to accept the
partnership of citizens. Given our reality in the country, this is not going to
be easy. It will require the capacity of leaders in government, especially the
PTF to come up with initiatives that can energise activities that should be
appealing to citizens. It is tempting to dismiss such
proposals and continue to handle the challenge at hand about containing the
spread of Covid-19 based on business as usual approaches. In the event that
such an approach leads to exponential rise in cases of Covid-19, both leaders
in government and non-governmental spheres must accept responsibility. At that
point, no blame game can save the situation, or worst still, recover any life
lost. If our leaders, whether in government or out of government want to save
the situation, the time to act is now. Already, business as usual practices
is already making religious leaders to compel our leaders in government to
relax the lockdown in many states and based on that mosques and churches
congregations are returning with the high risks of getting the virus to spread
faster in our society. Chances are that should this be the case, once the
spread produce the exponential figures of cases of positive person and
unfortunate death, citizens together with religious leaders will then turn and
start blaming government. In return, government may argue that it is because
citizens refuse to observe social distancing and comply with directives of
lockdown. Why should we allow things to get to
this level? Why can’t our leaders lead us in this moment when it is only our
capacity to make the right sacrifices that could help to contain the spread of
Covid-19 and therefore ensure that we are able to save the lives of our
citizens? If community ownership is required to achieve this, isn’t it
necessary that it is only through the active support of non-governmental leaders
that we can achieve community ownership? In any event, will Covid-19 spare the
non-governmental leaders or any category of citizen? We may want to respond to these
questions based on strategies to protect our comfort zones. In which case,
religious leaders may want to protect their powers based on insisting that
religious congregations hold. And traditional and other leaders may also choose
to be indifferent. Government may also continue to act based on declarations
and expect citizens to respect them. All these will only translate to
politicising the fight against Covid-19. In the end, no matter where we stand,
we are all as individuals vulnerable to Covid-19 irrespective of whether we are
ordinary citizens, leaders in or out of government, Muslim, Christian,
traditional, organised private sector, organised labour, women or persons with
disability, etc. Finally, it is important to highlight
the point that the most important requirement that will ensure success in the
fight against Covid-19 is the ability of all Nigerians to make the right
sacrifices. Inability to direct initiatives in our fight against Covid-19 will
only reproduce all our national differences, whether, ethnic, religious,
gender, social and economic status, etc. Part of what the fight against
Covid-19 require in the circumstance is that we must all remember that first
and foremost we are human beings. In any case, beyond the fight against
Covid-19, there will be the question of building on our successes and directing
it towards creating a new foundation for a stronger health sector in the
country. Such a foundation can only be guaranteed based on good partnership
between government and citizens. That is only possible if we are able to, as a
nation, rise to this challenge of Covid-19, which calls to question our
humanity. Like Simon Kolawole rightly and
aptly put it in his article of Sunday, April 5, 2020, Human Race under Siege,
using the statement, which he wasn’t sure it came from the American Artist,
Susan Boerner, “We were all humans until race disconnected us, religion
separated us, politics divided us and wealth classified us.” Simon went on to
argue that “We are all in panic mode. We are desperately looking for a solution
and we don’t care the race or religion of who finds it. We do not have enough
time to be analysing our artificial divides.” There is no better way to capture
the reality we face today. However, considered, the appeal is: Nigerian
citizens and government should be united in this fight against Covid-19. This does not represent the view of
any APC Governor or the Progressive Governors Forum April 10, 2020