 There is a trust deficit between the governed and
government, and by extension, public office holders. Holding public
office can make the holder very unpopular, and hated even, but if you
happen to die in office, you can become a hero in death. It may have
something to do with our culture and religion; however, with the late
Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, Malam
Abba Kyari, the outpouring of eulogies and positive stories in
circulation which far outweigh the image he was cast in before his
death, is unprecedented. Being a political appointee with tremendous powers, no
one expected he would be loved by all, but many are also
taken aback about the positive traits in him coming to
light. Now, is the problem about the burden of office, the
kind of system we run, or we are a people that like to make tragic heroes out
of leaders. With regards to the no love lost relationship between
the government and the citizens who distrust them, you cannot
blame the latter. After years of pillaging the citizens’ collective
patrimony and instituting corruption in public service, living the mass of the
people in penury and misery, the populace might be right to treat everyone in
government with suspicion, but with the advent
of fads like social media, fake news, innuendos
and outright lies taking the center stage, anybody can be maligned
out of mischief. As I rummaged through the avalanche of positive
commentaries on Abba Kyari, I wondered why some or parts of
these glowing tributes were never highlighted, to at least shield him from
potshots, justified or not? A case in point is the MTN fines saga. Early in the
days of this administration in October 2015, the Nigeria
Communication Commission (NCC) fined MTN $5.2
million for non-compliance with the NCC deadline to disconnect unregistered SIM
cards. After some negotiation and horse-trading, the
fines were reduced. Nigerians went agog with rumours that the
president’s CoS collected bribes to reduce the fines. There were
never rebuttal from him. So many allegations were later levelled against him,
none of which he ever denied nor confirmed. And the man died. After his death,
Simon Kolawole, columnist and publisher of The Cable in his
tribute wrote thus: “my biggest disappointment with Kyari is
that he refused to tell his story. When he was accused of taking a bribe from MTN, he
explained to me how he opposed the reduction of the 5.2 million dollar fine,
how he was excluded from the resolution committee because of his stand, and how
some people met in Dubai and drafted a position paper that formed 80% of the
final settlement agreement. He said he didn’t know if anybody took bribe, but
he was not part of it and his conscience was clear to God”. This is in addition
to so many other allegations of corruption levelled against him. Is it in our nature to turn a villain into a
hero in death after being vilified in office? I didn’t know
Abba Kyari personally and this intervention is not about his
good or bad deeds. It is simply my assessment of the way we view
those in government, especially those who wield enormous powers and
apply same to the maximum. I was once in government briefly and I could
not fathom some of the unpalatable things said about me, including buying a
house from election money; a house
I moved in three good years before my appointment. Of course if you
didn’t know me personally and I never had the opportunity
of defending myself, you’d take the rumour hook, line and
sinker. It could well have been the handwork of those who felt
shut-out, yet that was just a modest appointment at the state level. Just
imagine a big appointment at the national level, and what those who lost out in
appointment-sharing could resort to. The tragedy of public office is also the assumptions
and illusions that come with it. For some, such appointments only give
unlimited access to state resources. A lot of bad guys had long spoiled
the broth for others, so everyone out there at the top is a thief. The situation
has so degenerated that those that come to public office, with their integrity
intact and have remained transparent and efficient, but do not allow
colleagues, friends and wheelers and dealers to dip their hands in public
till, also have their names dragged to the mud and their reputation impugned
with all sorts of false accusations and petitions. Once in
government, head or tail, you lose. With the way things are, public office
will one day become unattractive to ordinarily qualified and efficient
hands. As articulated in some of the
Abba Kyari tributes, something tells me
Abba Kyari was to some extent misunderstood, and was
even betrayed by those he helped to power. If the MTN bribe story as
ascribed to Kyari was false, who started the spin and
snowballed it into a conflagration? Must have been an interest group
somewhere. Abba Kyari was lucky. Lucky because he died
in office. Lucky because the beneficiaries of his generosity and
lieutenants are still very much around (and are speaking out), and the
government he served in is still in power and therefore could and were able to
show us Abba Kyari’s other side. All the negative things said
about him would have stuck (forever perhaps) if the reverse had been the
case. Many are not that lucky; they go to their grave with stigma derived
from false accusations. In politics all is fair in love and war,
and politicians are capable of anything. Abba Kyari could
have been a victim of bad politics. He could have stepped on toes of those who
felt they worked harder for Buhari to emerge, only for
Abba Kyari be to a major beneficiary at their detriment.
Who knows? The point being made is, Nigerians can turn a saint into a
devil and whitewash a villain to look spick and span. It is all within the
matrix of politics. While some of the Abba Kyari stories now in
circulation are in the realm of political talk, the Minister of
Foreign Affairs,Geoffrey Onyema’s, says a lot about the human
side of the late CoS, in the true sense of a human angle
story, commitment and loyalty to friendship, forged over the years.
 They had met in Warwick and Cambridge in UK in the
70s as budding young men; he was the best man at his (Onyema’s) wedding
and had stuck together until he passed on last weekend. Here
is one tribute that speaks to the essence of the man
Abba Kyari. From that account too, it is obvious
where Onyema’s appointment as minister came from. Though positive testimonies
from especially people he got into government cannot bring him
back to life, they did help to counter the earlier narrative
about the man, Abba kyari. Come to think of it, why did we have to put the
failures of government on an appointee, and leave his principal out
of the fray? Another tragedy of governance and policy mix-up,
you may say. May the soul of Abba Kyari rest in peace.