 President of the Senate, Dr Ahmad
Lawan has felicitated with Nigerian Muslims on the commencement of the Holy
month of Ramadan. Lawan sent out his goodwill message
through a statement on Thursday in Abuja. According to him, observance of
Ramadan is one of the five pillars of Islam and it is a special period for
seeking the face of Allah through fasting and prayers. “This year’s Ramadan comes at a most
unusual time when mankind is contending with an existential threat in the form
of the deadly COVID-19 pandemic that has shutdown the economy and entire social
life throughout the world. “As part of the measures to combat
the pandemic, governments across the globe have directed people to keep social
distance and avoid large gatherings, including congregation for lectures or
prayers which are some of the dominant features of the holy month of Ramadan. “This also affects the “I’tikaf”,
the usual seclusion in the Mosques during this period, which we have been
advised to instead observe in our homes. “These are part of the sacrifices we
have all been called to make, so that we can prevail against the ruthless
invisible enemy called COVID-19,” he said. The senate president  enjoined
the Muslim faithful and Nigerians in general to maintain full compliance with
the directives given by relevant government and religious authorities in the
efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19 as the Holy Month commenced. He noted that with the unusual
circumstances, the holy month this year offered a golden opportunity to more
solemnly,, seek the face of Allah, the Most Merciful. “We should therefore seize the
opportunity to pray for the protection of our country and mankind in general
against this plague and for a quick return to normal life. “I also urge us to remember in our
prayers,, our health workers and other care givers who are at the frontline of
the fight against COVID-19. “We should also pray for divine
guidance for our leaders to always take the right decisions and do the right
things especially in this trying time for the comfort and well-being of the
people. “It is an important duty of the
faithful during the Ramadan, to show compassion for the less-privileged whose
conditions have even been made worse this time by the economic and social
disruptions caused by the Coronavirus pandemic. “As we embark on the spiritual
journey in this Holy month of Ramadan, it is essential that we always keep to
the directives on restriction of movement, social distancing, regular washing
of hands and personal hygiene which are all necessary measures to stop the
spread of COVID-19. “I wish us all Happy Ramadan. May
Allah accept our sacrifice of self-denials and answer our supplications and
prayers,” he said. (NAN)