 A prominent member of the organized labour, Comrade Issa Aremu, mni has congratulated Alhaji Aliko Dangote GCON founder and chairman of Dangote Group, an industrial conglomerate in Africa on the occasion of his 63rd birthday. Comrade Issa Aremu, who is the Vice President, Industriall Global Union said in a congratulatory message in Kaduna on Friday,   that while it is true Aliko remains the richest man in the continent, what marks him out is his wealth creation through value addition, industrialization and beneficiation to the abundant raw materials of Africa as well as the creation of much needed mass Decent employment for African workers. According to him, 
 Dangote Group of industries has changed the narrative of the continent
from that of ‘resource curse’, importation and smuggling to resource
beneficiation,  and new factories in food processing to cement
manufacturing, from freight to oil refineries, from sugar refinery to soft
drink companies, flour  and confectioners among others . “African labour movement is excited
about the bold corporate decision of the Dangote Group to open many
Manufacturing plants in Cameroon,  South Africa, Zambia and Congo,
Ethiopia and Tanzania”. Comrade Aremu said 63rd birthday of
Aliko takes place at the time Covid-19 has claimed over 101,000 lives globally
with about 1.6 million cases with attendant disrupted  global supply and
production chains. He said the current economic crisis caused by Coronavirus
pandemic validates the corporate vision of Aliko Dangote “that Africa must
produce what we consume and eradicate import dependence”. “Aliko is an entrepreneur who truly
saw tomorrow: that the way for Africa’s sustainable development is import
substitution.  Dangote’s investment patriotism remains unparalleled and
that his investments in many sectors have been a key factor behind Nigeria’s
emerging economy. The lesson of Dangote Group’s is that diversification is
not  the same as replacing extractive crude oil with another extractive
solid mineral but in beneficiation,  and value addition in production
chains.” The labour leader also commended
Aliko for collaborating with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to lead the
Private Sector Coalition Against COVID-19 by mobilizing resources to increase
general public awareness and provide needed support to healthcare facilities
during the crisis. Comrade Aremu said Aliko Dangote who personally donated N2
billion to support the coalition against COVID-19 has been “an all season
giver” to worthy humanitarian causes such as eradication of polio, construction
of N7 billion hospital at the Murtala Mohammed Specialist Hospital in Kano,
N600 million Business School in Bayero University Kano, provision of boreholes
for many communities in the North through Dangote Foundation among. Aremu assures the entrepreneur of
constructive collaboration in investment and productivity improvement as well
defense of workers’s rights to decent work, freedom of association as well as
occupational health and safety at this critical period of COVID-19 and beyond.