 The
leadership of the three FCT Committees in the National Assembly have commended
the FCT Administration for its effective handling of issues relating to the
COVID 19 pandemic in the Territory. The
commendation was made following a meeting held on Saturday, April 4 between the
leadership of the committees and the FCT Administration in which the
parliamentarians were briefed on the efforts of the FCT Administration in
containing the pandemic in the FCT. Present
at the meeting were the Minister of the FCT, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello, the Hon
Minister of State, Dr Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu Chairman, Senate Committee on the
FCT, Senator Abubakar Kyari, Chairman, House Committee on the FCT, Honourable
Abdullahi Garba, Chairman, House Committee on FCT Area Councils and Ancillary Matters,
Honourable Ahmed Tijani Damisa and the Deputy Chairman, House Committee on the
FCT, Honourable Blessing Onuh. Also
at the meeting were the Permanent Secretary, FCTA, Sir Chinyeaka Ohaa, the
Executive Secretary of the FCDA, Engr. Umar Gambo Jibrin, the Chief of Staff to
the Minister Malam Bashir Mai-Borno and other senior staff of the
Administration. During the
meeting, the National Assembly members were briefed by both Ministers, 
the Permanent Secretary, officials of the  Health and Human Services
Secretariat, the Director of the Abuja Environmental Protection Board and the
Chairman of the Ministerial Task Team on Traffic Management, Mr Ikharo Attah. Speaking at the end of the meeting,
Senator Abubakar Kyari, who chaired it, expressed satisfaction with the actions
being implemented by the FCT Administration in the fight against COVID
19. He said I’ve
been enlightened because the Hon. Minister and the Hon. Minister of State and
the team have adequately briefed the committees of the Senate and the House of
Representatives. Before then, we were a bit concerned about the level of
preparedness. But the outcome of this meeting has shown that the FCT is on top
of their game. I’m very much impressed”. Speaking in the same vein Hon. Abdullahi Garba said the Minister
of State of the FCT Dr Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu was doing very well in her efforts
at sensitizing and enlightening residents at the grassroots level on the
pandemic and preparedness for the distribution of palliatives. Honourable Ahmed Tijani Damisa however said there was need for
more sensitization at the Area Council level and recommended the use of
residents at that level to do this in the local languages. FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello said that the
parliamentarians have assured the provision of full legislative support for the
efforts being put in place by the FCT Administration. He said” We have all agreed on measures to be taken and they
also assured us of proper legislative support like they have always done and we
continue to count on the cooperation with them”. He continued “at the end of the day, we all agreed that it is
very important that for us to fight COVID 19, there has to be full stakeholder
engagement. All arms of government have to work together and it’s also a fight
that involves citizen engagement because the greatest weapon we have is
personal discipline, adherence to government’s medical regulations and social
distancing”. Echoing the words of the Minister, Senator Abubakar Kyari, in
his message to residents of the FCT said “first and foremost residents should
 abide by the guidelines and regulations of the lockdown and government
regulations in respect of COVID-19 because that’s the only thing that we have
to avert any calamity because it’s a pandemic that we all know is spreading
like wildfire across the world”.