 The Federal Capital Territory Administration
(FCTA)  will invoke relevant laws that enables it to mandatorily evacuate
recalcitrant COVID-19 patients to treatment centres, the FCT Minister, Malam
Muhammad Bello has said. Bello, a statement issued by his
Chief Press Secretary, Mr Anthony Ogunleye, on Thursday in Abuja said the
measure was one of the decisions taken at a meeting of the FCT COVID-19
Emergency Response Team and management of FCTA. The meeting, which he chaired, also
had in attendance Minister of State, (FCT) Dr Ramatu Aliyu, FCT Permanent
Secretary, Mr Chinyeaka Ohaa, acting Secretary, Health and Human Services
Secretariat, Dr Mohammed Kawu, and others. The FCT Minister, who expressed
dissatisfaction with the development, said that existing laws would be used to
force such persons to go to treatment centers. Bello noted that the suspected
COVID-19 patients staying at home posed great risks not just to their families,
but also immediate communities. “Since we have began to witness
community transmission of the virus, it is imperative that we must do
everything within our powers to stop the spread; even if we have to compel such
persons to go to treatment centers. ” In order to prevent further spread
of the virus within the communities, it was resolved that massive testing will
be carried out in areas where community transmission has been established,
including Mabushi, Gishiri and Utako. The minister said that the response
team encouraged all residents to wear face masks when in the public and also
encouraged them to make their own face masks from cloth and wear them always. Bello also thanked all the frontline
workers in the fight against the virus and called for the cooperation of all
residents of the territory in the fight against covid-19. He, however, called on residents to
obey all laid down measures, including observing social distancing, constant
hand washing, observing stay at home directives and maintain respiratory
hygiene. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN)
reports that the meeting also reviewed the current situation of the COVID-19
pandemic in the FCT and the measures taken to contain it. NAN also reports that, so far, a
total of 263 staff made up of 66 doctors, 103 nurses, nine pharmacists, 15
laboratory scientists and 70 other staff have been trained, while 337 others
are slated for training which is on-going in batches. (NAN)