 The Speaker of the House of
Representatives, Rep. Femi Gbajabiamila has emphasised the need for an all-inclusive
relief package for Nigerians by government, arising from the effects of the
COVID-19 crisis. Gbajabiamila said one of the most
effective means of alleviating the financial burden of the stay-at-home order
to prevent the spread of the virus is for the government to give a 100 per cent
waiver on the electricity consumed by every household in the country. The Speaker said this in Abuja on
Wednesday during a meeting between the leadership of the National Assembly and
the Minister of Finance, Zainab Ahmed, the Minister of State on Petroleum
Resources, Timipre Sylva, the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN),
Godwin Emiefiele, the Group Managing Director of the Nigeria National Petroleum
Corporation (NNPC), Mele Kyari and others, for an update on the COVID-19
interventions. In a statement by his Special
Adviser on Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi, the Speaker, however, noted that
without the cooperation and collaboration between the Executive and the
Legislature, such laudable idea may be impossible to achieve. In his opening remarks at the
meeting, the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, said the meeting was
critical so that the National Assembly would be adequately informed about the
various proposed interventions, for it to be able to promote and support them
with constitutional backing when the need arises. While requesting the Minister of
Petroleum Resources to update the leadership on the state of the nation’s crude
oil, Lawan said the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank of Nigeria must,
as a matter of necessity, streamline their stimulus packages in consonance with
the national budget in order to avoid duplication of efforts. In his remarks, Rep. Gbajabiamila
restated the need for collaboration between the two arms of government for the
benefit of Nigerians during these trying times. He said: “We are indeed in an
exciting time in Nigeria, and it is how we deal with and confront the problem
that would determine how we end up. “So, I’m waiting with bated
breath and I’m anticipating the various packages and stimuli and how we intend
to, as a government, deal with the times we find ourselves in. “I look forward to listening to
what is on ground, and I’m even looking forward to more input from the National
Assembly when it is time for us to make an input. “Because as it is often said,
two heads are better than one, and we have one government. The National
Assembly will not act unilaterally neither will the executive. We will work
together for the best outcomes for the people whom we serve.” The Speaker noted that the entirety
of Nigerians should be the focus of whatever stimulus package and actions for
the aftermath of the crisis period, which he said should be treated with every
sense of purpose. According to him, a stimulus package
that takes care of a large part of the populace should be at the front burner
of government’s intervention programmes at this time. He said: “I’m looking forward
to a robust package, that will include succour to the Nigerian people, that is
the issue of electricity. Just for two months. “I had this argument with
somebody the other day and he failed to see something until I pointed it out to
him that if an average man, and for argument sake, pays N10,000 for electricity
in a month, and you tell him that government will subsidize your electricity
100%, that we have the guarantees and undertakings by the DisCos and GenCos
that your electricity supply will not flicker for a moment for two months. “Do you know what you’ve done
invariably? You’ve loosened that N10,000, you freed up that N10,000 for him to
do other things with. “In other words, the government
has given him N10,000, which we all know what people are asking for right now.
By saving him the  N10,000 on his electricity bill, the government has
given him N10,000. “Unfortunately, we have to do
it by way of comparison, we know what Ghana, next door has just done. “I’m sure it’s in your (Executive)
package and that’s why I said I’m excited and if that is the only contribution
that the National Assembly has to make in terms of the stimulus, I think we
should consider it. “And that is why it is not a
unilateral decision of either the executive or the legislature. It has to be a
symbiotic relationship, we work together for the best outcome for the Nigerian
people. “There’s a lot more ground to
cover and if we work together we will be able to cover as much ground as we
possibly can”. In her response, the Finance
Minister, Zainab Ahmed informed the leadership that the Ministry is set to
present a revised 2020 national budget as well as the Medium Term Expenditure
Framework (MTEF)/ Fiscal Strategy Paper (FSP). “As we move to adjust the Budget
and implement the N500b stimulus package. The President has set up a committee
chaired by the Vice President which will be meeting today at 2 pm. “The feedback we get from that
meeting would be conveyed to the relevant bodies as we design the various programs
which will include the upgrade of healthcare facilities, support to States,
Public Works and other interventions that we are working on at this time”,
she said.