  As 
controversy trails the offer of support from China, in the current fight against
the rampaging COVID-19 a member of National Institute Kuru, Jos, Comrade Issa
Aremu has said the nation needs  unity of
purpose against the pandemic and not what he called  “unhelpful
controversy” at this critical time. He made this observation in a statement in
Kaduna on Thursday. The
Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) and the Trade Union Congress (TUC) had
reportedly kicked against the coming of Chinese doctors and experts to Nigeria,
stressing that  bringing Chinese doctors into the country at this time of
the global pandemic would dampen the morale of the frontline health workforce. Comrade
Aremu said COVID-19 which has recorded  over 1,513,243 cases  in over
148 countries with over 88,403 Deaths,  329,731 recoveries   can
only be confronted with “global solidarity”, not what he called
“China-phobia”  even as he agreed that each  country bears  the
“singular responsibility to independently act fast and efficiently  ” to
contain the Covid: 19  menace. The confirmed cases in Nigeria had risen to
272 with additional new reported death in Lagos. Aremu 
who is also the  Vice President industriall Global Union  hailed the
decision of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 and NCDC to subject
the Chinese medical experts to national control measures such as 14 days
isolation period. The
former Vice President of the NLC said while the concern of the NMA was
“legitimate”, questioning  the support of China was at this time
“unhelpful” to deal with the COVID-19 challenge which he described as a matter
of “life and death” for all countries . According to him, as the Coronavirus
curve climbs in Nigeria, the Chinese support with 256 equipment and items in
different quantities among which are 1.3 million medical masks, over 150,000
pieces of personal protective equipment as well as 50 medical ventilators was
“timely and commendable.” Comrade
Aremu backed the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) and the
Chairman of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19, Boss Mustapha adding
that the  support from the Chinese firms in Nigeria within the framework
of their respective Corporate Social Responsibilities would further
compliment  on going massive national responses. He said
there is a huge deficit on the supply-side of the necessary Health protection
and economic materials such that additional support from the private sector,
NNPC, multilateral institutions and China are “timely and necessary”. “The
point cannot be overstated that China has  successful contained  the
Virus which first broke  out in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China in December
last year, Nigeria would benefit from the their effective methods and advice on
the use of relevant medical equipment” he wrote. Comrade
Aremu who was also the Labour Party (LP) Governorship candidate in Kwara State
said the controversy about China called for “an inclusive and consultative”
Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 such that the concerns of critical
Stakeholders like NMA and organized labour can be proactively addressed through
collective engagement. He
said apart from their commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), all
multinational and national companies as well employers with billion dollar
investment in Nigeria have the responsibility to protect their workers and
their families from the health risks of COVID-19. “Protective
measures at the workplace and across communities should be introduced and
strengthened, requiring large-scale public support and investment.”he 
said. Comrade
Aremu commended  NMA for  mobilizing   Nigerian doctors to
support the national responses against COVID 19 urging the Federal  and
states governments to adequately protect and compensate frontline health
workers and deliberately include them in decision making process. He called on
the PTF to honour Dr  Amarachukwu Allison, whose vigilance and
commitment  “led to the early diagnosis and rapid containment of the
Italian first Covid-19 infection in Ogun state”. He said Allison’s
vigilance  timely slowed down the pandemics which had since risen, due to
subsequent complacency. However
Comrade Aremu said sustainable fight against the pandemic lies in domestic
production of necessary medical materials such as face masks and sanitizers
adding that many states should follow the example of Cross Rivers state that
has set up state led garment factories to produce critical health materials. He
said it was time for economic diversification, self reliance and import
substitution as well as “large-scale and coordinated policy efforts to provide
employment and income support and to stimulate the economy” after the pandemic.