By Saad Yushau Shuaib As the Year 2019
rolls by, Nigerians are now counting their gains and losses while hoping
the new year 2020 will usher in abundant prosperity economically. Taking a
critical look at some of the major economic policies of President Muhammadu
Buhari in the previous year, one could predict what to expect this year. Even though Nigeria’s oil
sector attracted huge foreign capital flow, the foreign direct investment was
minimal in 2019. For instance, the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS)
indicated that the largest amount of capital importation in the third quarter
of 2019 was received through portfolio investment, which accounted for 55.88%
of total capital importation, followed by Other Investment, which accounted for
40.39% and then Foreign Direct Investment FDI, which accounted for 3.73%. The country should
provide a conducive enabling environment to encourage Foreign Direct Investment
in 2020 by ensuring stable electricity and addressing the infrastructural
deficit. The border closure was
another major economic policy of Buhari’s government towards encouraging local
production and secure the border from smugglers and criminals. The
implementation resulted in the skyrocketing in the cost of goods and services.  The
decisions on border closure though laudable, but affected the
purchasing power of many Nigerians who depended on some of these imported goods
because of their cheaper nature. The administration rushed into implementing
the policy without adequate cushioning provisions. With the anticipation of
opening the border on January 31st, 2020 (barring any last-minute change),
there is hope that prices of goods including foreign and local products may
crash due to aggressive competitions in the market. The government must sustain
it supports in standing by local farmers and other food producers against
stiff competition. The country’s debt has
continued to rise under the administration of President Buhari which raised
significant concern in 2019. As at October 2019, Nigeria’s external debt stood
at $27.16billion while the Domestic debt stood at $52.72billion. Considering the alarming
debt profile, the government should look for alternative strategies to manage
the situation rather than selling our assets to offset the debts. The
government should also do away with outrageous contacts and expenses like the
proposed N37 billion for the renovation of the National assembly. Despite claims of
economic diversification, the country witnessed massive unemployment in the
year 2019. The government was unable to find relief to our unemployment issues
and this has continued to spell doom for the economy. The government through
the Labour Minister, Chris Ngige admitted that the unemployment rate could
reach 33.5per cent in 2020. The government should
create the enabling environment that could drive skill acquisition,
entrepreneurship and empowerment of youths towards self-reliant and
self-development as strategies for job creations. If last year which was
described as ‘best year’ by supporters of the administration, if immediate
action is not taken, 2020 may be a scary year. Education as the bedrock
of national development, adequate funding in that sector is essential
especially on information and communication technology and computer-based
learning. I strongly believe that
the year 2020 can be more prosperous and conducive for economic development if
the government can do away with wasteful expenditures like the approval of
N37billion for the renovation of the National Assembly. It beats all forms of
imagination that for a country that has a rising debt profile, unemployment and
other infrastructural deficits, the executive and legislative arms can expend
huge resources to non-priority areas. The effect of wasteful
spending in 2020 will be fatal to the economy as it would deny Nigerians the
right to basic needs: better education, efficient infrastructure, affordable
healthcare service and above all a secured society. Saad Yushau Shuaib Wuye District Abuja