On 21 December 2019, the Ivorian President Alassane Ouattara and his French counterpart Emmanuel Macron formally announced three reforms to the CFA franc – the colonial currency created on 26 December 1945 and still in use in 14 African countries, including the eight Member States of the UEMOA (the West African Economic and Monetary Union). 
The envisaged reforms include the change of name from the West African CFA franc to ECO; the abolition of the requirement for the BCEAO (the Central Bank of West African States) to deposit its foreign exchange reserves with the French Treasury; and the withdrawal of the representatives of France from the organs of the BCEAO. 
These developments did not come about as a result of the benevolence of the French government or of its Ivorian ally, who had long been advocates of the status quo. They were rather triggered by the outcry for the abolition of the CFA franc orchestrated in the recent past by pan-Africanist social movements, intellectuals, ordinary citizens, etc. within the continent and in the diaspora. This is the time and occasion therefore to commend and encourage those working tirelessly in pursuit of the collective emancipation of Africa. 
Be that as it may, it is still premature to claim victory. Some of the embarrassing symbols associated with the CFA franc will no doubt disappear, but the bonds of monetary subservience en- shrined in legal and monetary policy would continue to exist. 
That aside, the announcement of the future change of name from the CFA franc to “ECO” is puzzling. ECO was the name chosen in June 2019, in Abuja, by the fifteen-member countries of ECOWAS (Economic Community of West African States) to designate the single West African regional currency then in gestation. The project had been brewing within ECOWAS since 1983 though its launching had been deferred on several occasions. 
Why would UEMOA countries then arrogate to themselves the right to effect a change from CFA franc to ECO whereas they are yet to comply with the criteria set by ECOWAS for entry into the ECO currency zone? How is one to view and appraise the hasty declaration by Macron and Ouattara maintaining France as the alleged “guarantor” of the CFA franc now renamed ECO and upholding the fixed parity with the euro, whereas to introduce its new currency, ECOWAS had asked for the complete withdrawal of France from the management of the currency of UEMOA countries? Need the point further be made that ECOWAS had also opted to peg its currency to a basket of currencies. 
Should there not be cause for concern over an attempt at sabotage, especially in view of the French government’s oft-expressed desire to expand the use of the CFA franc to include English-speaking West African countries and thus isolate Nigeria? 
With the current confusion, compounded rather than dissipated by the various communiqués from ECOWAS, BCEAO, the Republic of Nigeria, the Republic of Ghana, etc., we call on the citizens of ECOWAS Member States to be more vigilant in light of the recent developments relating to the CFA franc and ECO. 
Though we welcome the emerging public debate on the CFA franc, driven by intellectuals and civil society actors in Africa, we must equally deplore the troubling dormancy of our Heads of State and Government on an issue of such symbolic, political, economic and psycho-sociological importance. 
With the failure of African governments to react on an issue that affects the future of more than 300 million people in West Africa and bears on regional integration, we ask: