By Adebayo Makinde At the end of the year Get-Together/Awards
Ceremony organized by the Senate Management for the Staff of the Senate, the
President of the Senate, Senator Ahmad Lawan reassured the nation that the 9th
Senate was in a hurry to deliver on the targets set in its Legislative
Agenda. Basking in the euphoria of the early
passage of the 2020 budget, he said: “We passed our agenda. What we intend
to do as senators to enhance good governance in Nigeria is to make Nigeria
better for the citizens. And of course the way we want to go is different from
the way of the past because perhaps, the goals and targets are different…. So
between now and the next two years, we have told ourselves that we have to work
hard to ensure that ,as a legislature, we are able to perform our roles
creditably to enable government function very well for Nigerians. And that is
what we have been trying to do”. Predictably, the Senate President’s
lofty vision and reassuring words may have ignited hope of a paradigm shift, of
the unfurling of a new order the nation desperately needs to reinvent itself
but subjected to integrity test based on his actions as Senate President, his
preachment rings hollow as a cruel hoax envisioned to hoodwink the nation and
continue on the trajectory of deception which has so far imperiled and stymied
our quest for development. Nigerians who invested the highest premium and
confidence in the ability of Senator Lawan to lead by example did so for cogent
reasons. Arguably, one of the longest serving
legislators, he came to the National Assembly first as a member of the House of
Representatives in 1999 on the platform of the defunct All Peoples Party (APP).
His twenty year stay in the hallowed chamber gives him a rare insight into the
politics and inner workings of the legislature. As one of the few longest
serving lawmakers with vast knowledge and experience of this hallowed
institution, the Senate President is conversant with its strengths and
weaknesses. And having capped his years as a legislator with his emergence as
Senate President, so much was expected of him. After all, to whom much is
given, much is expected. But the tragedy going by his actions
thus far is that the Senate under his guidance and leadership is tottering on
the edge of a precipice, charting dangerous and discredited path which had
hitherto attracted to it public ridicule. In truth, the reputation of the 9th
senate may well be irredeemably damaged unless conscious and concerted efforts
are made by progressive senators to rescue it from the doldrums and insufferable
crisis of confidence visited on it by Senator Lawan. A case in point is the recent
appointment of Ahmed Kadi Amshi, the immediate past Senior Legislative Aide to
the Senate President when he was the Majority Leader in the 8th Senate as
Chairman, National Assembly Service Commission (NASC).This appointment
represents not only a blatant demonstration of arrogance of power and
repudiation of the Federal Character principle as enshrined in our
constitution, it signals a death knell on the paradigm shift the Senate
President had promised the nation. Apart from disdain for the principle
of federal character, a closer look at the appointment of Kadi Amshi
which  riles the sensitivity of all fair minded people, is morally
repugnant and therefore unacceptable. Amshi not only hails from the same Bade
Local Government Area of Yobe state as the Senate President, he also comes from
the same political ward. Mallam Adamu Fika, the former Clerk
to the National Assembly and immediate past chairman of the commission also
hails from Fika in Yobe state. Even more damning is the fact that Lawan’s
handpicked chairman of the commission is inexperienced for the job. The
commission is saddled with the responsibility of recruitment, promotion and
discipline of the staff of National Assembly. This delicate task requires the
experience and services of top notch technocrats and astute administrators in
the rank of former Clerks to the National Assembly, retired Permanent
Secretaries or Directors in the Federal or State service. From inception of the National
Assembly in this democratic dispensation, over 80 per cent of the commissioners
were retired bureaucrats who brought their wealth of experience to bear and
assisted a lot in building capacity in the legislature. Ordinarily, the chairmanship of the
commission should rotate between the North and South in the interest of the
federal character principle. Moreover, no Southerner has ever headed the
commission in its twenty years of existence. The 8th senate may have wanted to
correct this anomaly when it nominated Sen. Joy Emordi from the South East as
Chairman designate with eleven other members spread to reflect the federal
character. Senator Emordi was not only a ranking senator, she was also
presidential liaison officer to the National Assembly under the Jonathan
administration and was therefore eminently qualified for the office. But desperate to foist his personal
agenda, Lawan upon assumption of office, rejected the appointments in favour of
his preferred candidates. There is no shred of doubt that the Senate President
mislead the President to make appointments which has continued to rankle
genuine lovers of the legislature. Any doubt regarding this reality was
laid to rest by the President vide a letter to the National Assembly. The
President said, “Further to your letters
(NASS/9th/S/SP/PRE/1/NASC/06/11/19 dated November 6, 2019 and
NASS/9tg/S/SP/PRE/1/NASC/25/11/19, I write to convey my approval of your
nominations for the appointments of Chairman and Commissioners of the National
Assembly Service Commission as follows: Engr. Ahmed Kadi Amshi – Chairman
(Yobe, North East), Babagana Modu – Member (Borno, North East), Abubakar Tutare
(Taraba, North East), Hakeem Akamo (Lagos, South West) Tunrayo Akintomide
(Ondo, South West), Atanomeyorwi Francis (Delta, South-South). Others are
Bassey Etuk (Akwa Ibom); Bailyaminu Yusuf Shinkafi (Zamfara, North West); Sani
Saidu Kazuare (Jigawa, North West); Julius Ucha (Ebonyi, South East); Nnamdi
Anyaechie (Imo, South East); Auwalu Aliyu Ohindase (Kogi, North Central) and
Muazi Is’haq (Nasarawa, North Central)”. The Senate President’s single handed
control and determination of these appointments is a triumph of impunity and
political interest over due process and federal character. It is a betrayal of
public trust and a huge blow on the evolution of the legislature as an
institution. It is taken for granted that the actions of those who occupy high
office should be guided by national interest at all times. But when personal
interest as in the present case assails national interest, then we unwittingly
sow the seeds of disunity. The Senate is faced with two
choices: either to acquiesce to the unconscionable action of the Senate
President and allow the mess to fester and consume all of them or rise up
against this aberration and avert the looming catastrophe threatening to
imperil its much advertised Legislative Agenda. Inside the hallowed chambers of the
Senate are some principled patriots. The exigencies of the moment demand that
they rise to correct this anomaly. The Legislature is too important to be
shackled in any shape or form by  the
narrow selfish agenda of an individual no matter how powerful. (Makinde, a Public Affairs
Commentator, writes in from Ilorin, Kwara State).