Last
Thursday, January 9, 2020, Governors of Nigeria’s six Southwest States of Ogun,
Osun, Oyo, Ekiti, Ondo and Lagos, launched the western Nigeria security network
called ‘Operation Amotekun’ in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. Governors
Seyi Makinde of Oyo, Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti and Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo were
present at the flag-off while Governors Gboyega Oyetola of Osun, Babajide
Sanwo-Olu of Lagos and Dapo Abiodun of Ogun cited poor weather conditions as
reason for their absence. As significant as the new security initiative (but
there was once a regional police !!!) at sub-national level  is, it’s is
more out of fear than reasoned and well thought out security strategy. The
point cannot be overstated: security like many critical Federal issues like
army, immigration, customs service, capital and labour controls, health and
safety, aviation are on the exclusive list of the 1999 constitution. 
Operation Amotekun should not be another state police without
constitutional amendment and legitimization and ownership that inputs by
all Nigerians who have the right to move everywhere and be protected. Critical
questions begging for answer are: under which Federal law are youths being
armed and uniformed for security services in five states of the Federation?
Where are the states’  laws that confer operation Amotekun right to
provide security services?  What happens to rule of law in the south west?
Who can train and arm youths for security in a Federation? Does Amotekun have
the power of intelligence gathering, arrest and prosecution? How does the
Operation Amotekun relate with the existing Nigeria Police Force? Nigerian
governments at all levels must adopt consensual gradualist approach to policy
reforms instead of the current unhelpful uncoordinated divisive shock
therapy  approach which creates more problems than providing solutions for
good governance. Nigeria should adopt  gradualist  inclusive approach
to reforms instead of the current immediate effect/exclusive and vested
interests’ approach which  alienates and divides. Goal 17 of the 2030
Sustainable Development Goals to which Nigeria subscribes  envisages
Partnership  in policy formulation and implementation. Both the proponents
and antagonists of the so-called state police have been falsely pitched against
each. Only engagement and partnership would offer a common ground for security
of lives and properties. In quantitative terms, Nigeria can definitely make do
with more policemen and women. With less than 500, 000 police for
restless  200 million people, police  per capital is one of the
lowest in the world. But more than quantity, Nigeria needs quality policing
through training and retraining and above all motivation and good compensation
for service delivery. In fact Nigeria needs policing, not just police men and
women. Who  pays for Operation Amotekun and how much?  Are the new security
recruits trained or trainable? It is time we built a developmentalist state (as
distinct from a police state!). A developmentalist state  combines
physical security with economic, income and social security of the masses of
the people. What Nigeria urgently needs is certainly not a police state,
(Federal or state controlled) but a developmentalist state that must be driven
by all tiers of governments, local governments, the states and the Federal
government above all Nigerian people. Any state exists primarily for the
security of its people. Scores of state – based institutions abound in Nigeria
specifically charged with the responsibility for the protection of life and
property. They include the police, state security service agencies, military,
civil defence agency, immigration, and prison services. When we combine the
self-help arrangements like private guards guiding burglary ringed apartments,
Nigeria already passes for a garrison/police state.  Not less than 30
states are currently under the heels of military operations. No thanks, to the
current enormous physical security challenges: crude oil theft, kidnappings,
murders, arms proliferation, political violence, robberies, “religious” crises,
high profile corruption, Trans-border banditry, smuggling and general economic
crimes? We must think outside the physical security box. Our current security
preoccupation in Nigeria has been on the property (of the few rich!) and some
lives of notable public office holders, namely retired and serving Heads of
governments, governors, and legislators alike. We must broaden our security
perspective to be inclusive  of all, to also  include job and income
security, social and economic security for the greatest number of Nigerians.
With 50 percent open unemployment, massive factory closures and 60 per cent
gross under employment (read: Okada riders and road-side hawkers of
God-knows-what-where ) I bear witness that Nigeria remains the most “peaceful”
country in the world. Many thanks to Nigeria Federal police force for maintaining
the peace of the grave yard. Economic and social security of the critical mass
is as significant as the lives and property of the few. Many factors tend to
increase the vulnerability of people to insecurity, the notable one is
unemployment. No Federal or state police can curtail the army of miserably and
hopelessly disillusioned poor people as Nigerians today. The policy implication
is to create necessary economic and political conditions for minimization of
physical insecurity and not a silly feverish atomization of the Federal police
force into some Bantustan/state/ Amotekun/policing. During
the three decades of military dictatorship, the Nigeria Police Force was
literally abandoned, saddled with acute shortage of office and barracks
accommodation with rank and file on miserable salaries. Without logistic
support like transport and communication equipment, poorly motivated police was
turned into attack dogs against fundamental human rights of citizens, through
open extortions and sheer brutality. It is therefore simplistic and misleading
to think Policing can be as clinically divisible into state or Federal as some
are putting it. We must first reform, reposition and transform the existing
Federal police before any new innovations of state police can be taken
seriously. State governors who shamelessly politicize everything under their
heels, resist payment of minimum wages cannot be trusted with any civil
servants not to talk of armed unemployed youths in the garbs of  police
men and women. The prospect of a police force in a state going on incessant
strikes on account of lower pay than the existing Federal pay is better
imagined than contemplated. If we do not reform the existing Federal police
first for the better, we might be decentralizing a mess dignified as state
police. The history of the Police in Nigeria indicates that the state police
under colonial rule engendered repression, incivility and brutality. We cannot
take another leap to dark ages. Duties of the Police are provided for in the
Constitution; the prevention and detection of crime, the apprehension of
offenders, the preservation of law and order, the protection of life and
property, due enforcement of all laws and regulations among others. Issa
Aremu mni