 In the run up to the 2015 election,
his opponents called him ‘’Mai Rusau’’ and roughly, this term translates to
‘’the demolisher’’. On the other hand, Malam Nasir El Rufai’s supporters
gave  it     a positive spin. According to them, the APC
gubernatorial candidate was out to “demolition’’ injustice, corruption and bad
governance. El Rufai won  the election and the nick name has stuck. After
more than  one year in office, Governor  El Rufai has reformed the
civil service,  the education and health sectors in the first term of
office. Now, his focus is on building infrastructure in Kaduna
state. Massive investments in
infrastructure and outstanding policies to maintain and sustain them 
are  what set societies apart in terms of development. In Nigeria, two
places that come in mind, in terms of infrastructural development are Abuja,
the Federal Capital Territory and Lagos state. Their expansive road networks,
modernized building structures, availability of relaxation spots, quality
schools, advanced and accessible healthcare facilities and tourist attractions
are what stand them out from the rest states. Indeed, these have been 
lacking in Kaduna State  for several years. With its  population
currently approaching 10 million people, of which  4 million are 
currently living in Kaduna metropolis,  there is the need to upgrade the
over stretched and decayed infrastructure. Mores so that  projections
predict  that by 2050, the population will rise to  12.96 million
based on a 3.18% growth rate, with about 7 to 8  million people living in
the state’s urban settlements. In order to accommodate this growing population
and to make Kaduna state the true capital of northern region that it was,
Governor Nasir El Rufai had launched an ambitious Urban Renewal Project in June
last year. Significantly, the project
comprises   road expansion and maintenance, housing  and
improved land use,  as well as mass transit, parks and recreational
centres. In addition,  market and neighborhood centres, which  adhere
strictly to the 1967 Max Locke Master Plan of Kaduna, will be  part of the
first phase of the project. According to the governor, the Urban renewal
project will start in Kaduna and subsequently, it will  extend to Kafachan
and Zaria, the two other major towns  in the state. In Kaduna metropolis, seven 
new roads totalling 23.7km have been identified, that will significantly open
the city with a multiplier effect on housing, businesses, unity and social
development. One of such new roads that stands out is the Kabala Costain –
Aliyu Makama road in Barnawa. According to the renewal plan, the 1.4km road
which will  start from the Police College Roundabout  at  Independence
Way,  will cut through Kabala Costain and  cross  river Kaduna.
At this point,   a bridge of 230mm will be constructed and  it
will link Kaduna North local government area with  Aliyu Makama road,
which is located at   Barnawa, a sprawling settlement in Kaduna South
area council. Specifically, this link road will  reduce the volume
of  traffic across the Stadium roundabout – Station Market main road
artery. Over the years, residents in Kaduna have had to bear with the constant
time-consuming traffic hold up on the historic river Kaduna bridge, especially
during rush hours,  as people move to and from their places of work. The
completion of this new road and bridge will provide an alternative route for
residents, reducing time travel and the traffic burden on the former bridge. Another road that will greatly
improve traffic  flow in the state when completed,  is the Rabah road
by Arewa House,  to the Rigasa Train station road. According to the Kaduna
Urban Renewal Project plan, the new road will  start  from the Arewa
House junction and pass through Unguwan Kanawa, before  linking Nnamdi
Azikiwe express way. In addition, the road  will continue through the
National Eye Centre resettlement layout, to connect with Rigasa train station.
Likewise,  there will be a  flyover at Arewa House junction, which
will pass  over the rail line  to Unguwan Kanawa. Similarly, there
will be an  underpass, which will start  at the edge of the golf
course  of the old site of the Nigerian Defence Academy(NDA),  go
beneath Nnamdi Azikiwe Express Way,  linking to the other side of the road
in Eye Centre. Similarly, a new road linking Millennium city to Yakowa way has
been pencilled down  for construction. This road,  which will 
be called Urban Shelter road, will save commuters  from having to return
to Unguwan Rimi, before going to and from the two roads. It will be a direct
link for residents of Kamazo, Karji, Jan Ruwa and Unguwan Maigero to Millennium
city. Apart from the new roads, some
existing roads have been earmarked  for dualization or improvement due to
their  strategic nature. For example,   Katuru road which
links  Isa kaita to Rabah road has been completed.  Also, 
Alkali road which stretches  from Ali Akilu way to Race course, is almost
at completion stage and has  been open to road users. Other roads
currently undergoing dualization include Waff road,  starting from NEPA
round about, to Essence /Sultan road junction. Also,  Yakubu Gowon way
from Leventist  roundabout  to  Barau Dikko Hospital, to link
Waff road is being cleared for dualisation.  Likewise, Aliyu Makama road
in Barnawa, Poly road from Government House roundabout to Dutsenma road, 
through Kasuwan Barci, are on the card. On the other hand,  the UNTL-Flour
Mill-Nassarawa road to Western bypass, will be a 4km single lane with asphalt. Worthy of mention also, is the plan
to re-work  the Kawo bridge   to a  double  3-lane
flyover, complete  with three rotaries (roundabouts) underneath. The
bridge will also be extended in length,  to begin from Hayin Banki and end
at the gate of the 1st Mechanised  Division. Right now,  alternate
roads are being created   to ease traffic when work begins in
earnest. Beyond road construction,  the
Urban renewal will provide leisure and entertainment for the people of Kaduna
state.  For example, the historical Gen Hassan Usman Katsina Park is
undergoing total reconstruction to give it a    befitting historical
status. Specifically, the park will house a movie theatre, a game arcade and
the zoo which will be stocked with more animals. There will also be a Go-Kart
track as well as three different water parks, one of which has been completed
and open to residents. Construction of the Centenary Park, named in
commemoration of 100 years of  Kaduna town, has reached an advanced stage.
Indeed, it was the venue for the first ever Kaduna  count-down
celebration, a display of fireworks, heralding the new year.  Upon
completion, the park will house a Go-Kart track, two football 5-aside pitches,
an event centre and an amusement park for kids. Similarly,  the Urban Renewal
Project  is aimed at boosting economic activities. Right now, the Galaxy
Mall is being constructed along Waff road and already, it has attracted 
investors like Shoprite and leading cinema operators like Silverbird. According
to the timeline, it will  be completed in December 2020. In
addition,  the Kaduna Markets Development Company is constructing regular
markets  and rehabilitating old ones  across the state. The Kasuwan
Magani Market in Kajuru local government area is one of such new markets, which
is  both aimed at building the local economy and peace in the area. 
Similarly, the poorly planned and over-crowded Sabon-Gari market in Zaria,
according to the renewal plan,  will  be  reconstructed,
complete with modern facilities and safety standards. In the same vein, Murtala Square
Complex has been shut down for total upgrade and rehabilitation. The popular
square which has been a place for recreation and sporting activities, 
shall be upgraded to modern standards in line with the needs of the people.
Likewise,  the multipurpose indoor sporting arena is also being renovated.
Barring any hitch, it will be ready by next month. Ultimately,  the benefits of
these urban renewal projects to the people of Kaduna are  immeasurable.
Apart from upgrading needed infrastructure for future growth, the urban revival
will  also create jobs. In the long run, it will  establish an
enabling environment for  economic growth, improved  value of property
and  increased IGR.  Significantly, the task of turning Kaduna State
from its static and outdated self,  to a progressive modernized
place,  is a daunting one. However,  Governor Nasir El-Rufa’i has
taken  the bull by the horns as the state has become one huge construction
site. By next year, when most of the projects must have been completed, Kaduna
state will be wearing a new look, the first time it will do so since the 1960s,
when it served as the capital of northern region. Nabilah is a Special Assistant on
Media and Communication in Kaduna State Government