On August 4, 2015,
Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, was appointed by President Muhammadu Buhari as the
Executive Vice Chairman/CEO of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC),
the regulatory authority for telecommunications in Nigeria. He was subsequently
confirmed by the Senate on November 25, 2015. Since then, the professor of
telecom engineering has worked with the support of the Board, Management and
staff of the Commission to consolidate on the achievements of his predecessors
at the telecom regulatory agency. Precisely on August 4,
2015, Danbatta was appointed by the President and subsequently confirmed by the
Senate on November 25, 2015 in line with the provision of the Nigerian
Communications Act (NCA), 2003, following thorough and rigorous screening by
the Senator Gilbert Nnaji-led Communications Committee of the Senate. Danbatta’s job as the
umpire of the telecoms industry was affirmed for a five-year tenue in the first
instance, as stipulated in the Nigerian Communications Act (NCA), 2003. It is
evident, four years and few months into the five-year term, Danbatta has left
nobody in doubt about his competence as a regulator per excellence, having
continued to provide the right and leadership at NCC. On assumption of office
at the NCC’s architectural masterpiece headquarters located in Maitama
District, Abuja, the former University don began to effectively confront many
challenges bedeviling the industry to enhance the development of a
knowledge-driven, inclusive, globally-competitive and prosperous Nigeria
through telecommunications. Thus, Danbatta hit the
ground running by unveiling his 8-Point Agenda, which was designed to provide a
focus for the Commission and the industry as a whole over the next five years
from 2015.  Focal issues on the agenda
include facilitating broadband penetration, improving quality service,
optimizing usage and benefits of spectrum, promoting ICT innovation and
investment opportunities, facilitating strategic collaboration and partnership,
protecting and empowering consumers, promoting fair competition and inclusive
growth as well as ensuring regulatory excellence and operational efficiency. Key
Growth Statistics from 2015 till Date From August 2015 till date, the industry has recorded impressive growth
statistics, pointing to the effective regulatory environment created by the
Commission. Today, telecoms contribution to gross domestic product (GDP)
increased from 8.50 percent in August 2015 to 11.39 percent as at October, 2019.
Active mobile voice subscribers increased from 151,018,624 to 2015 to 180,386,316
during the same period while teledensity increased to 94.50 percent following
its rebasing in early 2019. Internet subscribers increased from 90 million in 2015 to 123.5 million
by October, 2019 while broadband penetration jumped from 8 percent to its
current 37.87 percent, indicating a total of 72,289,389 Nigerian access data
services on 3G and 4G networks. Also, the number of subscriptions to Mobile Number Portability (MNP)
service increased from 385, 617 in August 2015 to 1, 206,874 by October, 2019. This
is attributable to increased public enlightenment by the Commission’s head
office and its zonal offices across geo-political zones on the on the
availability and usage of MNP. Similarly, the total number of telecoms
subscribers that have subscribed either partially or fully to the
Do-Not-Disturb (DND) service introduced by the Commission – to curb cases of
unsolicited text messages – increased from level zero  to 22,356, 919 currently. Upward
trajectory of broadband penetration One of the areas where
the Commission has made significant contribution till date is in the area of
broadband penetration. Following painstaking implementation of the 8-Point
Agenda, the country achieved and surpassed its broadband penetration target of
30 percent by the end of December, 2018 as stipulated in the National Broadband
Plan 2013-2015. A feat commended by all stakeholders in the country,
appreciating the Commission for occupying the driver’s seat in the national
drive for broadband development. Indeed, the implementation of the auspicious Agenda
gained a lot of traction such that broadband penetration further increased from
32.34 percent (indicating 61,732,130 Nigerians on 3G and 4G networks) to 37.87
percent (indicating 72,289,389 on 3G and 4G networks) between January, 2019 and
October, 2019 respectively. Cognate efforts by the NCC
in licensing new spectrum bands, re-farming certain frequency bands and driving
initiatives for increased broadband infrastructure in the country, among others
have collaboratively resulted in the consistent broadband growth. With increase
in broadband penetration being recorded on a monthly basis, the Commission is
well positioned to support the actualisation of the country’s digital economy
policy strategy, as unveiled by the Federal Ministry of Communications and
Digital Economy late 2019. Just recently, the new National Broadband Plan Committee
was inaugurated by the Minister Federal Ministry of Communications and Digital
Economy, Dr. Isa Pantami, with the national mandate to come up with the new
broadband target for 2020-2025. Since 2015, the NCC’s passion
for pervasive broadband penetration is evident in its drive to facilitate
broadband penetration, which tops its 8-Point Agenda. The Commission has also
articulated it clearly, at different fora, that access to broadband will become
a fundamental metric for measuring economic development in Nigeria, as it will
be central to the growth recorded in every other sector of the economy where telecoms
would be propelling automation and digitisation. Speaking at a forum,
Danbatta averred that Nigeria’s thirst for data has grown in significantly,
largely to the generational change of telecommunications from the use of
voice-dominated technologies (1G and 2G) to today’s data dominated technologies
of 3G, 4G and even the much-talked-about 5G. According to him, without doubt,
more virtualised engagements are happening online and will continue to be, as
it does appears the citizens have an insatiable need for data. “Nigerians need robust
and pervasive broadband connectivity more than ever before in today’s world,
where people can easily interact with an Automated Teller Machine (ATM), carry
out activities around e-commerce, e-government, and telemedicine, among others
on a daily basis in a much seamless manner, thereby boosting their
efficiencies,” Danbatta had said. Rural
Connectivity with TVWS Technology Further to the
strategic implementation of its 8-Point Agenda, the Commission has partnered
with the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) and other necessary industry
stakeholders to brainstorm on how to develop a framework for leveraging television
white spaces (TVWS), as technology platform to extend affordable broadband
services to rural, unserved and under-served communities in the country. TVWS is the unused
broadcast spectrum which can be deployed in the telecommunications sector to
provide cost-effective broadband services to people in the rural, underserved
and unserved areas of the country towards achieving universal access and
universal service in line with the country’s digital agenda. The collaboration
with the NBC was in line with the fifth pillar of the NCC’s 8-Poing Agenda
focusing on facilitating strategic collaboration and partnership with necessary
government agencies and stakeholders to drive the development frontiers of the
industry. The initiative for the
use of TVWS in Nigeria was mid-wifed by the Ministry of Communications and
Digital Economy, following approval for the use of the TVWS technology by the
National Frequency Management Council (NFMC). TVWS deployment is expected to further
enable the NCC to facilitate its mandate to ensure universal access to digital
services across the nooks and crannies of the country. “Ensuring that all
Nigerians are connected is our priority at the Commission. “We are continuously
in a quest to achieving rural connectivity goal and this quest has led us, as a
Commission, into embarking on several initiatives to actualise this pervasive
connectivity objective in Nigeria,” said Austine Nwaulune, Director, Spectrum
Administration, NCC said during a stakeholders’ forum on framework for the
deployment of TVWS held earlier in 2019. Accelerating
Broadband Infrastructure across 774 LGAs Closely related to the Commission’s
efforts in deepening broadband penetration is its development of Open Access
Model (OAM) initiative, principally aimed at extending access to digital
services to all the 774 local government areas (LGAs) through the licensing of
Infrastructure Companies (InfraCos) across geo-political zones. To date, six InfraCo
licences had been issued by the Commission. They include Raeana Nigeria Limited
for the South-South Zone; O’dua Infraco Resources Limited for South-West Zone;
Fleek Networks Limited for North-West Zone; Brinks Integrated Solutions for
North-East Zone; MainOne Limited for Lagos Zone and Zinox Technologies Limited
for the South-East Zone. The seventh and last licensee for the North-Central
Zone of the country is being processed by the Commission. As Public-Private
Partnership (PPP) initiative, the NCC is expected to provide a counterpart
funding, in form of stimulus, to encourage investors of InfraCo to deploy fibre
optic infrastructure across the country. Already, subsidy negotiations with the
licensees had been concluded by the Commission and efforts are being tidied up
by the telecoms regulator to secure Federal Government’s approval for the
disbursement of the counterpart funding to the licensees. This, however, will
be disbursed to the InfraCos upon attainment of certain milestones in their
area of deployment. During a visit by the
United States Trade and Development Agency (USTDA) to the Commission earlier in
2019, Danbatta had said that, “NCC had concluded the process leading to the
disbursement of subsidies to the six licensed InfraCos in line with the digital
transformation agenda of the Federal Government. The subsidy will augment the
InfraCos’ capital expenditure (CAPEX).” Spectrum
Auctions and Related Initiatives One aspect of the
Commission’s regulatory activities which has added the needed fillip to its
accomplishment with regards to broadband penetration is in the area of
effective utilization of available spectrum. Apart from achieving and
surpassing the 30 per cent broadband penetration, the NCC had recorded some
broadband-driving successes, especially in the area of spectrum auctions. These
include the auction of the six slots of 2×5 megahertz (MHz) in the 2.6
gigahertz (GHz) Band, re-planning of the 800 MHz band for Long Term Evolution
(LTE), licensing of two slots of 10 MHz each in the 700 MHz band, as well as
the opening up of the E-band spectrum 70/80 GHz band for both last-mile and
backhaul services. Other regulatory instruments by the Commission in this
regards include the Spectrum Trading Framework, which allows for
transferability of spectrum licence from a dormant licensee to another operator
that needs such spectrum which has been redundant for the deployment telecom
services. All these efforts are
in keeping with the commitment of the Commission, as articulated by Danbatta
early in 2015 that “NCC will develop and implement flexible, market-oriented
spectrum regulatory policies that promote highly-efficient use of spectrum in
ways that stimulate innovation, investment, and job creation and increased
consumer benefits.” Commitment
to ICT Innovations in Telecoms Industry In line with its
commitment to promoting innovation to drive digital transformation, the NCC, in
2016, created its Research and Development (R&D) Department for the
Commission in 2016, for the main purpose of synchronising the various ongoing
research activities and other development projects being carried out by the
Commission. This decision, which was in line with the provisions of the
National Telecommunications Policy 2000 and the Nigerian National ICT Policy
2012, has helped the Commission to stimulate and sustain innovations in the Information
and Communication Technology (ICT) industry. Till date, the
Commission had disbursed millions of Naira, in grants, to sponsor
innovation-oriented research projects in tertiary institutions and other
research institutes across the country. Further to this tradition of driving ICT
innovations through funding relevant researches in tertiary institutions, the
Commission, in May 2019, announced N40 million endowment funds for Bayero
University, Kano (BUK) and the Federal University of Technology, Owerri (FUTO).
The funds would be utilised by the institutions to drive for innovation,
research and development in the digital space with an ongoing commitment to
expand the list of benefiting institutions. A month after,
precisely in June 2019, the Commission, again, demonstrated its determination
to facilitating research and innovation in the telecoms industry by presenting
the sum of N65 million to eleven (11) universities in Nigeria to drive
innovation, research and development. Through the funding, the benefitting
tertiary institutions were expected “to deliver research results and prototypes
that are implementable, commercially-viable and capable of engendering
innovation in different sectors of the economy.” Today, the Commission continues
to support young innovators, through providing them with opportunity to showcase
their tech innovations at global telecoms conferences such as the International
Telecommunication Union (ITU) Telecoms World. Also, organising local
competitions for technology innovators, on an annual basis, in order for them to
competitively develop locally-relevant tech innovations and applications that
can help grow the economy is parts of the NCC’s efforts in this regards. The latest of such
effort was the three-day Maiden Edition of the Innovation
Competition/Exhibition Event hosted by the Commission at the Digital Bridge
Institute Lagos Campus between from December 17, 2019 to December, 19, 2019, with
the theme: “Promoting Innovation and Creativity in the Telecoms Sector”.
The forum gathered some 25 shortlisted technological innovators to pitch their
innovations before industry stakeholders for cash prizes provided by the
Commission towards advancing their business ideas for full commercialization. After
series and rounds of presentations, discussions as well as questions and
answers sessions by the panel of judges and focusing on local content component
of the innovators’ business plans, 10 best-in-class innovative ideas were
shortlisted out of the 25 tech innovators from the six geopolitical zones of
Nigeria. Consequently, from the
10 shortlisted innovators, QMartins Fidelis – founder of Qatalog Automates
emerged the best; WICRYPT came second while Phaheem Pharmaceuticals Limited
came third. They won N3 million, N2 million and N1 million respectively. While addressing the audience
at the event, the EVC of NCC, said the initiative was “in line with Item 4 of
the Commission’s 8-Point Agenda, which speaks to promote ICT innovation and
investment opportunities in the telecoms industry through promotion of digital
knowledge and skills that can positively impact various sectors of the
economy.” Preparing Nigeria for next-gen tech
resolution In consonance with the
3rd and 5th items of its 8-Point Agenda focusing on ‘optimising usage and
benefits of spectrum’ and ‘facilitating strategic collaboration and
partnerships’, the NCC, in collaboration with the Global System for Mobile
Communications Association (GSMA) in the fourth quarter of 2018, held a
workshop to examine the prospects and challenges of Next-Generation Networks
(NGN) such as the Internet of Things (IoT), 5G, Artificial Intelligence (AI),
Big Data, among others, in the nation’s telecoms industry. The workshop, according
to Danbatta was “to provide an avenue for regulators, operators and investors
as well as other stakeholders to examine and constructively exchange ideas on
the main demand areas for next generation of services, spectrum licensing
reforms and the requirements for 5G and other emerging technologies that are to
revolutionise the telecom system and users.” The workshop, thus, formed the
precursor to the country’s preparedness for the impending deployment of 5G technology,
whose commercial deployment on a large-scale and global level is expected to commence
fully by 2020. Consequently, in the
last quarter of 2019, the Commission, in its proactive regulatory approach, mid-wifed
the trial of Fifth Generation (5G) technology in Nigeria. This made NCC the
first telecoms regulator in the whole of West Africa to begin such a historic
trial towards unleashing greater digital revolution in the country. Today, 5G
trials had been successfully conducted in major cities including Abuja, Calabar
and Lagos with MTN being the first operator to carry out the trial. Through 5G
network deployment, Nigerian will have access to faster broadband speed on
their network. This will result in more efficiency in the course of carrying
out their personal and official activities. Accordingly, the
InfraCo framework will provide the needed robust broadband infrastructure upon
which the 5G services will ride, thereby impacting e-learning, tele-medicine,
e-agriculture, e-health, e-commerce and so on, in terms of speed, latency and
more applications that can be made possible when 5G is pervasively deployed by
operators in the country. In addition to this, the Commission has projected
greater prospects for accelerating digital transformation in Nigeria, through
making the country a truly knowledge and digital economy. Parts of these include
the determination of the Commission to ensure that all new base transceiver
stations (BTS) to be built by mobile network operators (MNOs) are
LTE-compatible; ensure the implementation of the harmonised Right of Way (RoW)
charges on state and federal government highways at the cost of N145 per linear
meter; ensure elimination of multiple taxation and regulations; facilitate spread
of 3G coverage to, al least, 80 per cent of the Nigerian population over the
current 56.4 per cent of the population covered with 3G networks. Other projections by
the Commission towards deepening digital transformation include  regulatory commitment to ensure operators upgrade
their 2G BTSs to 3G; ensure spread of the impending 5G to, at least, five per
cent of the population; determination to ensure spread of 4G/LTE services to
100 per cent of the population with a minimum broadband speed of 1.5
megabit  per second (Mbps); and finally
deployment of, at least, one (1) Access Point of fiber with a 10 gigabyte per
second (Gbps) capacity in all the 774 local government areas, among others. Growth
in Telecom Investment Four years ago, the foreign
direct investment (FDI) and local investment profile in the telecoms sector
stood at $38 billion. But today, investment in the sector has grown
significantly to over $70 billion. The Commission also continues to strengthen
commitment towards pursue relevant policies to encourage more investment into
the industry. Speaking at the maiden
Nigerian Telecom Leadership Summit (NTLS) held in Lagos in 2019, Danbatta, had
noted that “the volume of telecom investment in Nigeria is very impressive and
indicative of a very fast-growing and resilient sector of the economy. But, we
will continue to advocate for more investment, given that the industry is very
capital intensive, with the competition for FDI becoming fiercer among
different nations.” Today, the Commission estimates that about 40 million
Nigerians – especially those in the rural and semi-urban areas- are yet to be
reached with basic telecom infrastructure and services. According to Danbatta, “the
argument for more investments becomes more compelling, given that this industry
is very capital intensive, with the competition for Foreign Direct Investments
(FDls), becoming fiercer among different nations. In our consultative
regulatory process, we consider shared experiences, and shared vision as the
best approach to equip us with the tools to continuously reposition towards the
course of effective regulation.” He stated further that,
as the 4th Industrial Revolution blurs the lines between the physical, biological
and digital boundaries, the industry will continue to witness challenges of
investments to match growth and technology evolution dynamics. In this age,
broadband is of critical importance with its potential to improve the economy
of many nations. “We may all be aware of the empirical study by the World Bank,
which suggests that for every 10 per cent growth in Broadband penetration
results in 1.34 per cent in Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in developing
countries. This is one of the reasons why we have developed the regulatory and
licensing framework to accelerate broadband availability, accessibility and
affordability,” Danbatta stated at the NTLS in Lagos. Restructuring
the telecom VAS Segment to Create Jobs, Improve Innovation In the last four years,
the Commission had succeeded restructuring value–added services (VAS) segment
of the telecommunications sector through the development of VAS Aggregator
Framework – a move that has helped to sanitise the industry. Today, the telecoms
VAS segment, currently estimated at $200 million, is said to now have the
potential to be worth over $500 million in the next few years. Consequently, the
Commission’s Board Resolution at its 88th sitting held on Thursday 27th
September, 2018 considered and approved the recommendation for the grant of VAS
–Aggregator Licence to nine companies. An additional licence has been added,
bringing the number of licensed VAS Aggregators in the telecoms sector to 10. The
licensed companies are: I-Cell Multimedia Limited, Nina-Jojer Limited, 21st Century
Technologies Limited, Nitroswitch Limited, HML Consulting Limited, Iykejordan
Limited, Cognys Systems Limited, Perpetual Communications Limited, Mobile
Intelligence Limited and Aerandir Technologies Nigeria Limited. Apart from boosting
activities in the VAS segment of the telecoms space in Nigeria, the VAS
aggregator licensees will improve innovation, local content, employment
opportunities, and increase in income stream to both network operators and
content developers. Improving Consumer Protection, Empowerment Perhaps, more profound
in the agenda of the Commission is its Item 6 which consumer protection and empowerment.
In the last four years, the Commission has intensified efforts at protecting
and empowering consumers of telecoms services by developing new and sustaining
existing initiatives in this direction. Some of these
initiatives include the popularisation of mobile number portability (MNP)
service to give consumers wider choice to migrate from one network to another
without changing their original line. This has also helped consumers from
indiscriminately purchasing Subscriber Identity Module (SIM) cards to achieve
their objective of being on another network that offer better service delivery. The declaration of 2017
as Year of the Consumer was another giant step by the Commission. The
philosophy of this initiative was dedicate 2017 and beyond to addressing
critical issues affecting telecom, consumers in the industry. It is, therefore,
interesting to note that since the 2017 declaration, NCC’s efforts at
implementing consumer-centric initiatives have increased. This underscores the
importance the Commission places on consumer a critical stakeholder in the
telecoms value-chain. Suffice it to say that
in the last four years, the Commission has sustained periodic consumer
engagement, on a continuous basis, through its various outreaches such as the
Telecoms Consumer Parliament (TCP), the Consumer Outreach Programme (COP), the
Consumer Town Hall Meeting (CTM), the Elite Forum as well as its Consumer
Conversation forum, among others. The NCC has
demonstrated unflinching commitment to consumer in terms of consumer complaints
resolution. For instance, through the creation of the Toll-Free Number, 622, as
a second-level mechanism for consumer complaints resolution, telecoms consumers
have found easier to escalate any service-related complaints they might have to
the Commission for prompt resolution. According to NCC report, between January
2017 and December 2018, for instance, the Commission received a total of
118,784 complaints from consumers, of which a total of 92,757, representing 78
per cent of total complaints received during the two years period, were
successfully resolved to the satisfaction of telecom consumers. A similar report by the
Commission showed that between January 2019 and October 2019 alone, a total of
19,841 complaints were received from telecoms consumers across its various
consumer complaints channels. Of these, the NCC successfully resolved a total
of 17,851, representing a 90 percent success rate of consumer complaints
resolution during the period. It is noteworthy that a total of 18, 717
complaints were lodged to the Commission through the NCC Contact Centre. Little
wonder, then, that based on the satisfaction they enjoyed in getting their
complaints resolved by the Commission, a total of 19,345 satisfied consumers
sent notes of commendation/appreciation to the Commission via phone calls made
to the NCC Contact Centre and e-mails received via the NCC Consumer Portal. All
of these were to appreciate the various regulatory interventions that helped
them in satisfactorily resolving their service-related issues. Consumer exposure to unsolicited text messages has declined drastically
through the popularisation by the Commission and the resultant activation of
the DND facility by the subscribers.  The
DND facility has significantly helped the consumers to control unsolicited text
messages. As of October 2019, a total of 22,356, 919 subscribers have activated
the DND service either fully or partially. Further to its consumer
centric regulatory approach, the Commission has, so far, issued a number of
regulatory Directions to operators. They include the direction on data
roll-over, which enables consumers to roll over unused data for period of time,
ranging from one day to seven days, depending on their data plan; and the
direction on forceful subscription of data services and VAS, which directs
service providers to desist from forceful/automatic renewal of data services
without prior consent of subscribers. All these have continued to positively impact
on the consumer’s quality of experience (QoE). The Commission, in 2019,
also stepped up operators’ compliance with service level agreement with respect
consumer complaints management. In 2019, for instance, the NCC revised its
Consumer Complaints & Service Level Agreement (CC/SLA) for the purpose of improving
consumer complaint management and resolution by the service providers in a much
prompter manner. More importantly, the focus of the NCC’s Industry Consumer
Advisory Forum (ICAF)’s Open Forum held in the fourth quarter of 2019 was how
to further protect the consumers with respect to financial frauds committed by
criminals using telecoms platforms. As a testament of its
“multi-stakeholder spirit’ and in continuation of its efforts towards
strengthening inter-agency collaboration, the NCC, in November 2019,
inaugurated a 26-member multi-sectoral committee to combat the issue of
financial frauds using telecoms or digital platforms. The 26-man committee
drew membership from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), the NCC, Federal
Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC), Nigerian Inter-Bank
Settlement System (NIBSS), National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) and
the Association of Licensed Telecom Operators of Nigeria (ALTON). Other organisations
with representation on the Committee include the banks, security agencies such
as the Office of the National Security Adviser (ONSA), the Economic and
Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Independent Corrupt Practices other Related
Offences Commission (ICPC), Nigeria Police Force (NPF), Nigeria Financial
Intelligence Unit (NFIU) and the Federal Ministry of Justice. Curbing Menace of Call Masking, Call Refiling In the wake of 2017,
the menace of call masking/call refiling and SIM boxing reared their ugly heads
and pronto, the Commission took drastic actions towards addressing the issue.
Basically, call masking is when inbound international calls terminate in
Nigeria as local number. This raises serious security concerns, competition
issues among licensees and portends negative economic implications in terms of
losses of appropriate taxes accrued to government through inbound international
calls.  In fact, it is estimated that
globally, call masking is causing economy $60 billion annually. However, the Commission
took a number of regulatory actions towards curbing the menace of call
masking:  These include ensuring strict
compliance monitoring and enforcement by the Commission; imposition of
appropriate sanctions by the Commission on licensees involved in call refiling
and masking activities; and suspension of numbering plans of some perpetrators
and withdrawal of all their inactive numbering plans. Other measures taken in
this regard include the continuous sensitisation of consumers and other
industry stakeholders on the dangers of call masking, which is still ongoing;
the development and institution of new reporting requirements on
interconnecting licensees that makes it easy and seamless to quickly identify
perpetrators of call masking and the 
Proof of Concept (PoC) commenced in July 2018 with the deployment of
technology solutions to monitor, report, apprehend and block SIMs being used
for SIM boxing activities and prevent SIM lines from being used for call
masking activities. The above smart interventions
generated profound results for the industry. First, by end of 2018, call
masking (otherwise called call line identity (CLI) spoofing) had dropped to
more than 40 per cent compared to how prevalent it as of January 2018. Also,
SIM boxing traffic was down by about 25 per cent as at September, 2 018. Today, following
further enforcement by the Commission for telcos to deploy special technology
solution across their networks, cases of call-masking or call refiling,
consumer complaints around call-masking has practically come to a halt. Boosting Quality of Service, Investors’ Confidence In keeping with its
continuous commitment towards ensuring that telecoms operators deliver
consistently improved QoS to their over 179 million subscribers, the NCC, in
the last four years, embarked on a series of initiatives that have relatively
helped in boosting the quality of service delivery across mobile networks.
Through continuous monitoring of operators’ compliance with the Key Performance
Indicator (KPS) on Quality of service (QOS) on a state-by-state level, as
against measuring operators’ compliance on a national average basis, the
regulator helped to boost QoS
delivery in this regards. Today, complaints associated with call drops and
related have reduced remarkably. The Commission also
stepped up stakeholder engagement and collaboration both within the private and
public sectors of the economy to address salient and trendy issues affecting
the industry, as it continues to make remarkable inroads in this direction. The Commission’s timely interventions in Ogun, Kano and Kogi states
among others to resolve cases of indiscriminate shutdown of telecoms sites by
state agencies over disputed taxes and levies are worthy of highlighting. In
Kogi State, for instance, more than 70 base stations were sealed by the Kogi
Inland Revenue Service (KIRS) in 2018. Going by the nature of
telecommunications service, which relies on 24/7 availability, each time a base
station is shut down or sealed by a state agency, it automatically affects
several services depending on such telecoms platform for proper functioning,
exerting adverse effect on the economy of the affected area as a whole. It is
instructive to note that a similar intervention by the Commission, in
collaboration with the CBN, helped to rescue Etisalat Nigeria (now 9mobile)
from the brink of collapse following a financial crisis involving a $1.2
billion syndicated loan obtained by the telco from a consortium of 13 banks.
The landmark intervention gave the hitherto troubled telco a new lease of life as
it has now regained its growth momentum. Assuring investors of the regulator’s determination with regards to
their safety of their investment in Nigeria, Danbatta had said at a forum that,
“The NCC is working to address challenges facing the industry and most
importantly, in the area of achieving a more friendly and enabling operating
environment for faster telecoms infrastructure deployment. Only through this
can we have improved Quality of Service (QoS) that will automatically translate
to an improved Quality of Experience (QoE) for the over 172 million telecoms
consumers in the country as well as sustain the confidence of investors in the
telecom industry.” He added further that, “the industry, having achieved over $70 billion
investment, requires even greater infrastructure investment to achieve better
digital transformation for our nation. To this end, all hands must be on deck.
We need to understand the critical role access to telecoms services play in all
the facets of our economy and we must work together to support the industry’s
sustainability through improved quality of service and quality of experience
for the consumers.” The NCC, from time to time, engages consulting firms to carry out
studies that aid its regulatory decision towards engendering healthy
competition in the industry. For instance, the Commission engaged KPMG
Professional Services to conduct a Study on the Assessment of the Level of
Competition in the Nigerian Telecommunications Industry. Today, competition has
led to optimal performance from the different service providers because there
is always that pressure from the insatiable consumers. Ensuring Regulatory Excellence and
Operational Efficiency It is important to state that all the successes so far recorded
in the Nigerian telecom sector in the last four years have been as a result of
its enthronement of regulatory excellence and operational efficiency. Today,
its role as telecom industry watchdog has been able to stamp out monopoly
through engendering healthy competition and protecting the interests of both the
service providers cum investors as well as the subscribers. Local and international awards have
come the way of the Commission in droves in recognition of its efforts in this
regards. Consistent with its
commitment to engender operational efficiency, the Commission in inaugurated the
use of a five-storey building constructed by Commission, in 2019, essentially
meant to complement its Maitama Headquarters Building. Located at 1253
Cadastral Zone, Mbora District, Abuja, the project had been abandoned for a
long period for lack of funds to complete the massive structure. Besides
providing nearly a hundred-room office accommodation, the new building is
equipped with facilities such as swimming pool, lawn tennis courts, underground
car parks and a 600-seater auditorium for conferences and seminars. Currently, no fewer
than five departments of the Commission have since moved into the new building
now called ‘NCC Head Office Annex’, using the world-class facilities and this
has improved their operational efficiency. The move has also helped to
significantly decongest the Head Office Building of the Commission located at
Maitama District, Abuja for effective regulatory operations. More importantly,
the continuous hosting of most of the Commission’s activities inside the
600-seater auditorium architecturally situated within the new building is said
to have been resulting in appreciable cost-saving for the Commission. This
move, thus, gives concrete expression to the Commission’s compliance with the
cost-cutting measures of the Federal Government as directed by the supervising
ministry. Deepening Stakeholder Engagements Since 2015, no week has
passed without the NCC engaging with one group or agency of governmnet or the
other across the country. This, the Commission considered important because of
the daunting tasks and challenges in the industry. So far, the regulator has
had consultations with several stakeholders as critical success factor in its
regulatory mandate and consultations with stakeholders had yielded enormous
positive results. For instance, apart
from the monthly Telecom Consumers Parliament, the Commission has always
engaged the Nigerian Governors Forum (NGF), collectively and individually, to
address industry challenges, in the areas of multiple taxation, regulations and
Right of Way, among others. These engagements, no doubts, have brought about effective
partnerships with relevant stakeholders, thereby fostering ICT for sustainable
economic development and social advancement. The Commission, in the last four
years, has held several regional stakeholders fora across the six geo-political
zones in order to sensitise various stakeholders on such issues as telecom
infrastructure protection, invalidly-registered SIMs, and so on.  Several fora are also being held with the
academia and other professional bodies towards ensuring proper linkages in the
industry. Facilitating Telcos’ Listing on NSE The credit for the
listing of MTN Nigeria on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), in 2019, largely goes
to the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) for its smart regulation of the
nation’s telecoms industry through ensuring operators’ compliance with the
rules of the game in the industry. The listing was one of the dividends of a
‘no-nonsense’, outstanding and effective regulatory posture of the Commission.
The listing of MTN has, thus, served as tonic to other telcos to follow in the
same direction such as the listing of Airtel. As the country’s independent
telecoms regulatory authority, the NCC essentially facilitated the landmark
listing of the country’s largest telecommunications operator on the bourse in
line with its mandate, as enshrined in the Nigerian Communications Act (2003)
and other subsidiary regulations to promote investment, create a level-playing
field for all licensees, ensure compliance to existing telecoms laws and
facilitate delivery of top-notch quality of services (QoS) delivery to the
consumers. Suffice to say that
through this smart regulation and intervention by the NCC, leading to the
listing of MTN on the NSE, a new vista of opportunity has been created in the history
of telecommunication industry in Nigeria. Through the listing, Nigerians are
being empowered to own, control and manage shares in MTN Nigeria. Commenting on the
listing during a forum held in Abuja in 2019, the EVC of NCC had said: “The MTN
listing has helped to translate into action, an important objective of the
Commission, which is to promote local investment and ownership in the telecom
sector. Also, with MTN shares available in the capital market, it is expected
that Nigerians will buy shares and by purchasing the shares of MTN, they will
be financially empowered and be socially transformed.” “In addition to
benefits to the consumers, we all know that telecoms is a capital-intensive
industry and of late, we have found out that the inflow of Foreign Direct
Investment (FDI) into the sector has not been as much as it used to be and
there is so much for the telcos to still do in terms of expansion and this
expansion requires capital. Industry issue bordering on poor quality of service
is being partly traced to lack of sufficient infrastructure to cover the entire
country. Also, one of the
benefits of telcos listing on the NSE lies in the opportunity they have in raising
more capital for network expansion, which will, in turn, bring about
improvement in the quality of service delivery and quality of experience for
telecom consumers. Despite the seeming
volatility of the Nigerian capital market, the telcos’ listing has helped in
making the market capitalisation more bullish. Today, capital market regulator
and shareholder bodies have commended the effort of the NCC in making the
capital market more resilient through facilitating telcos listing – a move that
was the results of the conditions for settling the sanctions imposed on MTN for
violating subscriber registration rules in the telecommunications sector. Boosting FG’s Push for Improved Security of
Lives and Property The NCC has lived up to
expectation in the last four years of through aligning itself with the ongoing
efforts of the Federal Government to improve security of lives and property for
Nigerian citizens. This effort has been in the area of reinvigorating the
implementation of the Emergency Communication Centres (ECC) project and the
continuous cleaning up of the Subscriber Identification Module (SIM) cards
database. The ECC project is an initiative capable of offering a
round-the-clock access to Nigerians, who may seek help during emergencies or impending
threats to life and property, wherever they may be in Nigeria by merely dialing
112 Emergency Number as unveiled today. This is aside several other
socio-economic benefits this security-enhancing project brings to Nigerians. First, in line with the
decision of the Federal Government to enhance security of lives and properties
in the country and in apparent response to public demand, the National Assembly,
in 2003, enacted the Nigerian Communications Act (NCA) 2003 and in Section 107
(3) (a) & (b) of that Act, the NCC was given some mandates. The mandates
include taking immediate steps upon the commencement of the Act to promote and
enhance public safety through the use of a particular number which shall be
designed as the universal safety and emergency assistance number for telephone
services generally; and encouraging and facilitate the prompt deployment
throughout Nigeria of seamless, ubiquitous and reliable end-to-end
infrastructure for emergency communications needs. Consequently, the
Commission realised that the task of ensuring security is not the sole
responsibility of the government or a government. Rather, all must be involved
to bring the security situation under control because security threats are not
limited to any section of the country. This informed why the NCC, in the last
four years, has continuously paid special attention to the implementation of
the ECCs. The ECC project will
definitely add a lot of value to our security architecture by providing useful
information on emergency situations to the National Emergency Management Agency
(NEMA) and other emergency and law enforcement agencies, which are expected to
provide the much-needed help to Nigerians during emergency situations. The ECC project got
fully activated, following the NCC’s resolve to pay greater attention to the
implementation of the ECC project in the last four years. Today, the number of
operational ECCs has increased drastically to 17 states of the Federation and
the Federal Capital (FCT), Abuja – 18 ECC in all. The list of beneficiary
states includes: Benue, Kwara, Plateau, Kaduna, Kano, Katsina, Ogun, Ekiti,
Ondo, Oyo, Edo, Akwa Ibom, Cross Rivers, Imo, Anambra, Enugu, Adamawa and the
FCT, Abuja. The commissioning of
the National Emergency Toll-Free Number “112” and the Katsina State ECC to take
care of the North-West geo-political zone was successfully carried out on
September 23, 2019. Necessary preparations and arrangements are, however,
ongoing towards ensuring successful launch/commissioning of such centres,
including publicity and enlightenment in the remaining five (5) geopolitical
zones and the FCT. In recognition of the
important role of the Commission in leveraging ECC to boost security in the
country, the NCC was conferred with the award of Corporate Social
Responsibility (CSR) in Security and Emergency Management while its Executive
Vice Chairman, Prof. Umar Danbatta, was recognised as Nigeria’s Goodwill Ambassador
in Security and Emergency Management. The recognitions were received at the 2019
Maiden Security and Emergency Management Awards hosted in Abuja last December by
the Emergency Digest, in conjunction with the Centre for Crisis Communication. Closely linked to the
NCC’s efforts in implementing security-focused initiative was the Commission’s
ongoing efforts towards sanitising the country’s SIM database for increased
security in the country. In 2019, over 24 million invalidly-registered subscriber
records were scrubbed (deduplicated) by the Commission via Automated
Fingerprint Identification System (AFIS) in fulfilment of the mandate to
establish a credible database of telephone subscribers. Licensing of 10 VAS aggregators Following the development
of its Value-Added Service (VAS) Aggregator Framework for the telecoms VAS segment,
the NCC, in 2019, awarded the VAS Aggregator licences to 10 companies to provide
aggregator services. The award of such licences is expected to boost the
competitiveness of telecoms VAS segment. The framework will also help to unlock
the huge potential of the telecoms VAS market, which has been estimated to be
worth $500 million in the next few years. The VAS Aggregator licensees are
I-Cell Multimedia Limited, Nina-Jojer Limited, 21st Century Technologies
Limited, Nitroswitch Limited, HML Consulting Limited, Iykejordan Limited,
Cognys Systems Limited, Perpetual Communications Limited, Mobile Intelligence
Limited and Aerandir Technologies Nigeria Limited. Regularising
Commercial Satellite Operations for Increased Access In line with the
relevant provisions of the Nigerian Communications Act (NCA), 2003, the Commission,
in 2019, finally regularised the activities of all commercial satellite
operators including space station operators and earth station operators. It
also issued Landing Permits to Space Stations beaming signals over Nigerian
territory. In June, 2019, the Commission granted its first-ever landing right
permit (licence for satellite internet) to Avanti Communications Groups Plc, a
United Kingdom-based satellite operator, for hosting of its HYLAS 4 Satellite
specie segment over Nigerian territory. The landing permit, which was the first
of its kind in satellite communications in Nigeria, implies authorisation that
allows operators to beam its signal over the territorial integrity of a
country. Chief Regulatory
Officer of Avanti, Ann Vandenbroucke, stated during the granting of the permit
by the Commission that the deployment of the satellite would enable immediate
broadband access and faster internet services to Nigerians, saying the permit
was a big step forward for Nigeria and its economy. The company further stated
that it was “attracted to invest in Nigeria because of the stable and
predictable regulatory environment.” Combating
E-waste, IT Counterfeiting Early in 2019, the
Commission unveiled regulation on e-waste and guidelines on distaste recovery
at a stakeholder engagement forum held in his office in Abuja. On the e-waste
regulations, the Commission sees e-waste as electrical or electronic equipment
that is waste, including all components, sub-assembles and consumables that are
part of the equipment at the time the equipment becomes waste. Apart from their
solid and non-biodegradable nature, some of the toxic elements found in e-waste
include lead, mercury, lithium and other ozone-depleting substances. “A recent report by
World Economic Forum (WEF) indicates that electronic waste (e-waste) is now the
fastest-growing waste stream in the world. It is estimated that this waste
stream spiked by about 48.5 million tonnes in 2018. In Africa, the challenge is
even direr. In a fast-paced telecoms industry where speed and capacity define
the networks, rapid advances in technology make it easier and convenient to
change malfunctioning gadgets than to repair them. Also, illegal and predatory
e-waste value chain, which encourages the movement of e-waste from developed to
the developing countries, adds another layer to the global challenge of
handling e-waste,” Danbatta stated during a stakeholder forum held in Abuja in
2019 to on the e-waste regulation. Notably, the global
concern for the regulation of e-waste is two-pronged. The first is the acute
awareness of the hazardous properties and the potential risk on human health,
as well as their capacity to degrade the environment. The second is the
business case and vast potential for wealth creation in recycling e-waste into
more benign and productive uses. In Nigeria, due to low Gross Domestic Product
(GDP) per capita/low income and the desperate quest for information, it is
estimated that 75 per cent of electronic devices and equipment imported into
the country are irreparable and toxic junk. In line with its regulatory mandate
and to keep pace with efforts at managing e-waste-related issues, therefore,
the Commission developed the draft regulations on e-waste. The draft regulations
represent a holistic regulatory intervention aimed at providing clarity and
delimiting the responsibilities of various stakeholders in the e-waste
value-chain within the telecommunications industry. While the draft regulation is
industry-specific, it, nonetheless, keys into other initiatives at national and
international levels. In a similar token, the
NCC has raised the bar of compliance to standards by the mobile network
operators in lien with ITU recommendations and standards. For instance, through
its Technical Standards and Network Integrity Department and the continuous
enforcement activities of the Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement Department,
the Commission has, in the last four years, ensured improved standardistion in
the nation’s telecoms industry. To date, the NCC, in
its regulatory activities, placed great premium on setting standards that are
in line with the globally-approved ITU standards as well as ensuring compliance
with the standards set by the telecoms equipment vendors/manufacturers, the
user licensees and the end users who use terminal devices to receive
telecommunications services. The Commission has also put in place a sound
equipment type-approval process that guarantees that ICT/telecoms equipment
brought into the country for service provisioning are in line with
international standards and are not constituting any health hazards to the
individual service users and the environment at large. The Commission has,
therefore, stepped up collaboration that will further ensure that
substandard/counterfeit devices that can easily result in increased e-waste in
the country are curtailed, through increasing its collaboration on telecom equipment
standardization. In February, 2019, the NCC, in collaboration with the Office
of the National Security Adviser (ONSA) and other government agencies, set up
two committees to combat the cases of fake and substandard mobile devices that
manufacturers bring into the country without recourse to the Commission
standardisation process. The two joint
committees set up are the Project Steering Committee (PSC), comprising the
Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC), the Federal Ministry of
Communications and the NCC; and the Project Delivery Team (PDT) which draws
representation from the Federal Ministry of Communications, the ICRC, the
Federal Ministry of Finance and the NCC. The committees, with
specific terms of references, are to work together to ensure the implementation
of Mobile Devices Management Systems (DMS), a Public-Private Partnership
project, aimed at combatting the proliferation of fake, counterfeit,
substandard and cloned mobile communications devices in the telecommunication
industry. The move is in line with the mandate of the Commission, as enshrined in the Nigerian
Communications Act (NCA), 2003, to type-approve all devices used in the
telecommunications industry and to ensure that all devices used in the telecommunications
industry are in line with agreed standards and specifications. Strengthening Corporate Governance Code with
Disaster Recovery Regulations The NCC has also
developed a Disaster Recovery Guidelines specifically to strengthen corporate
governance in the telecommunications industry.  Basically, a disaster is a serious disruption
of the function of a community, society or a business. Disasters often involve
widespread human, material or environmental impact, which exceed the ability of
the entity to cope with using its immediate resources. The Disaster Recovery
Guidelines of the NCC, therefore, ties into the Commission’s wider risk
management initiatives introduced by the Code of Corporate Governance launched
by the Commission in 2014, which are aimed at protecting telecoms companies
from the threat of emergencies in their operations. It covers subjects such as
disaster profiling, disaster preparedness, disaster relief and disaster
recovery. Other Key Projects to Deepen Digital Access
in the Country Asides several other
interventions since 2015, the Commission in 2019 embarked on such projects
Wireless Internet Cloud, Laptop Project, Computer Based Test (CBT) Centres
project and ICT Park project. The Wireless Cloud Project is an initiative to provide
a platform for supporting campus-wide wireless access to internet service for
teaching, learning, research and development to faculty staff and students of
the nation’s Colleges of Education, Polytechnics and Universities and Hospitals
through the provision of the necessary infrastructure, including masts,
antennas, networking and twelve (12) months bandwidth supply and maintenance
support. During the period under review, the Commission successfully
implemented the Wireless Internet Cloud in 150 beneficiary institutions at
various locations in the country. The Laptop Project is
an initiative to supply, brand, configure and integrate into the cloud laptop
computers with e-learning suites in higher institutions across the country.
During the period under review, the Commission successfully implemented the
supply of laptops in 230 beneficiary institutions at various locations in the
country. In line with NCC’s strategic collaboration & partnerships drive,
the Commission is currently implementing the CBT project in Six (6) locations
across the Country which includes: FCT, Katsina, Abia, Ondo, Gombe and Anambra
States. This is a special intervention Programme by the Commission aimed at
establishing state-of-the-art facilities where online examinations can be conducted
to entrench efficiency, effectiveness and curb examination malpractices. It is
implemented in the 6 Geopolitical Zones in conjunction with the Joint Admission
and Matriculation Board (JAMB). The ICT Park is annother
initiative by the Commission to establish a fully functional Digital Industrial
Complex (DIC) to drive ICT Development and support Technology Start-Ups in
beneficiary States and its environs. The Commission is currently building ICT
Parks in four (4) locations across the Country, namely Kano, Borno, Ogun and
Enugu States. ITU’s
Positive Rating of Nigeria for Regulatory Exploits As a testament to NCC’s
unwavering commitment towards employing cross-sectoral approach and stakeholder
collaboration in its regulatory finesse, the International Telecommunication
Union (ITU) in 2018 rated Nigeria high for continuously exhibiting
responsiveness, progress and dynamism in the regulation of its over $70 billion
telecommunications industry. In its ‘2018 ICT
Regulatory Tracker’ launched in July, 2019, the United Nation’s telecoms
regulatory organisation stated that Nigeria scored 78.33 out of 100 marks
benchmark for last year, putting Nigeria 12th among  48 African countries and standing ahead of 36
other. The achievement is coming barely two years after the Nigerian
Communications Commission (NCC), the independent telecoms regulatory authority
in Nigeria, was acknowledged by ITU as one of the ‘foremost telecoms regulators
in Africa.’ In the report, ITU
calculates the overall scores from four clusters, namely: Cluster 1- Regulatory
Authority (20 marks); Cluster 2-Regulatory Mandate (22 marks); Cluster-3
Regulatory Regime (30 marks); and Cluster 4-Competition Framework.  In each of these four parameters, Nigeria’s
regulatory ecosystem scored 17, 20, 20, 21.33, respectively, totaling 78.33,
which is above what about 36 countries out of the 48 African countries and a
number of countries from other continent recorded, thereby putting Nigeria’s
telecoms regulator in a positive rating. The rating is, however,
not surprising because the NCC has continued to regularly hold stakeholder
consultations on several regulatory matters; collaborate with national,
regional and global telecommunications bodies; sign Memorandum of Understanding
(MoU) with other regulatory agencies such as the National Environmental
Standards and Regulations Enforcement Agency (NESREA), Nigeria Police, National
Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), Central Bank of Nigeria
(CBN) and Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Federal Competition
and Consumer Protection Commission (formerly Consumer Protection Council), the
Nigerian Governors Forum (NGF), the GSM Association (GSMA), Nigerian Army
Resource Centre (NARC), among others. Also, regarding
ensuring operational efficiency and regulatory excellence, the NCC has
continued to carry out a lot of regulatory interventions in delivering on this
mandate. For instance, the NCC has intensified compliance monitoring exercises
on the licensees, successfully resolved N1.03 trillion fine against MTN which
has led to the listing of MTN and Airtel on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). The Commission, under
Danbatta, has also promoted corporate governance in the industry, developed a
framework for participation in ITU working Groups while we continue to ensure
continuous capacity building for our staff for them to understand the dynamics
of and trends in telecoms regulations and engage in excellent recruitment
processes to get the best expertise for the regulations of industry. Conclusion Suffice it to say that
since 2015, the leadership of NCC has, despite daunting challenges in the
industry, brought forth sound regulatory experience in piloting the affairs of
the industry with such a finesse, ingenuity, regulatory excellence and passion.
Indeed, the last four years has helped the regulator to consolidate on the
growth recorded by his predecessors through effective development and driving
of initiatives needed to leapfrog the nation into a fully digital economy.
However, there are high expectations that, given the solid foundation already
laid in the last four years, consolidating on gains already recorded in the
industry, the NCC is poised to achieve more for the overall achievement of
digital transformation in the country.