By Chimezie Godfrey The Director General, Bureau of
Public Service Reforms(BPSR), Dasuki Arabi has said that the bureau is set to
conduct perception surveys as part of its mandate to initiate, coordinate,
monitor, and ensure full implementation of government reform policies and
programmes. Arabi who made this assertion on
Monday in Abuja at a press conference said the talking points on the perception
surveys would include investment constraints in Nigerian business environment,
and Presidential Executive Orders; implementation modalities and their
effectiveness. Others are service delivery issues
in some selected MDAs, education and transportation sectors reforms in Nigeria. According to the DG, the objectives
of the survey are to x-ray and effect reforms on investment constraints in
Nigeria business environment, Service delivery issues in some selected MDAs,
transportation and education sectors, among others. On the investment constraints in
Nigeria business environment, he said,” To identify the common constraints
in business environment in Nigeria. “To examine the impact of risk
on investment decisions in Nigeria. “To benchmark investors’
operations in line with global best practice. “Carry out a thorough appraisal
so as to be abreast with the dynamics of global economic climate. “And Draw lessons from the
survey to serve as a basis for further policy development and advice to
government and investor.” He said on the Presidential
Executive Orders, that the survey will be use to identify the level of
compliance to regulation on Presidential Orders, among other things. While he added that the survey will
equally bring about critical reforms in the service delivery issues in some
selected MDs, education and transportation sectors. Arabi disclosed that the scope of
the survey will targeted at MDAs, businesses, and citizens. He said the survey will be conducted
in one state in each of the six geopolitical zones which include
South-West(Lagos), South-South (Port-Harcourt), and South-East (Enugu). Others are North-East (Bauchi),
North-West (Kano), and North-Central (FCT, Abuja). According to him, the methodology of
the survey will be administration of questionaires, One-on-one interviews, and
focus group discussions. He also said that the perception
surveys will commence on Tuesday 14th January, 2020. He promised that the policy briefs
drawn from the surveys will be forwarded to the government for further policy
dialogue and implementation through the Steering Committee on the Reforms(SCR).