“John Marshall Harlan, the great dissenter was
an American Supreme Court jurist during the civil liberty struggles. His
constant alternative legal opinion helped in shaping civil liberty rights in
America. Such will be, I hope, the helpful efforts of Justice Fredrick Oho as
the alternative judgment in the Imo Governorship appeal.” Justice Oyebisi Omoyele and three
other Justices of the Appeal court on Tuesday 19th November 2019 upheld the
decision of the Tribunal by declaring Emeka Ihedioha of PDP the winner of Imo
state governorship election. The dissenting judgment of Justice Fredrick Oho
puts to question the majority judgment. The purpose of this article is to
extrapolate the majority and minority judgments and make sense of them for the
pending Supreme Court’s judgment without necessarily committing contempt of
court in particular to common law sub-judice and balancing section 39 of our
constitution on freedom of speech. The other tranche of the ambition of
this article is to inquire whether Emeka Ihedioha and PDP satisfy the
constitutional mathematical logic and how did the Tribunal and the Appeal
courts arrive at the constitutional syllogism of section 179 on one-quarter of
legitimate votes in two-third of the 27 Imo local government areas? By way of propositional calculus 18
LGAs constitutes two-third. Alternatively, how did Hope Odinaka Uzodinma of APC
magically and legally construed to be the authentic winner? Can Fr. Mbaka’s
mystic averments/prophesy have any place in the Temple of Justice? The above
questions could form interesting topics for doctoral thesis. However, that may be, Uche
Nwosu of the Action Alliance (AA), Ifeanyi Ararume of All Progressives Grand
Alliance (APGA) and Hope Uzodinma of All Progressives Congress (APC) argued
severally and individually that Emeka Ihedioha did not satisfy the requirements
of section 179 of our Constitution and for this reason prayed the court to no
avail, to set aside the decision of the Tribunal in the 9th March 2019
governor’s election. In addition, Hope Uzodinma prayed
the court to admit in evidence 388 excluded polling units’ results which if
aggregated he should be declared the winner. He corroborated this claim with
subpoenaed evidence of DCP Rabiu Hussaini (PW54) in union with forms EC8A/EC8B.
Not only that Hope Uzodinma’s argument goes to the root of the determination,
it will be material and substantial in the Supreme Court’s
decision. The ontological essence of the
dissenting judgment in this election petition is in shaping our electoral
jurisprudence and further midwife the Supreme Court to have an alternative but
imaginative legal view in formulating her would be judgment. Justice Fredrick Oho is like a legal
rebel and a non-compromising jurist as the alter ego of John Marshall Harlan. A
dissenter affects future judgments in cases similar to the matter present at
hand and in the hope that, through his judgment law makers may amend the
perceived issues, the way the constitution is couched and interpreted. The
eloquent dissent by the amiable Justice on the travesty of Imo State
Governorship’s election petition decision cannot be ignored in a hurry. The reasoning in a dissenting
opinion can over time, influence and persuade future decisions. It can
sometimes be cited as a persuasive authority in subsequent cases. The majority
judgment may concur but they have separate and individualized legal reasoning
for their judgments. These autonomous ratio decidendi will assist the Supreme
Court in reaching a healthy decision. The dissenter may disagree with the
majority judgment for any number of reasons; for instance, different
interpretation of the existing case law, the application of different
principles, or a different interpretation of the facts. Dissenting legal opinion helps in
understanding discussions between the judges and what was canvassed by the
parties in the suit. In another development, a Justice may concur or agree with
the majority opinion with different legal reasons. Concurring opinion can
sometimes be seen as a dissenter because of its distinguishable ratios. Dissenting and majority judgments
will form the legal cynosure in the Supreme Court’s decision as to who will
finally pontificate from Douglas House. Of course, Douglas House is different
from Douglas road. Justice can be done if and only if
the Supreme Court disassociate herself from the straw man fallacy as seen in
the Appeal Court’s majority judgment when it maintained a volte-face in PW54
examination. I will expect the Supreme Court will exorcise herself from the
marauding spirits as seen in Atiku vs. Buhari petition. Law practitioners are patiently
waiting for a new precedence in election petition. Certainly, there will be one
before the end of January 2020. I envisage the Apex court may adopt a legal
hermeneutical decoy in rendering of her judgment. For the development of the Nigerian
legal system, it will be a lofty idea if the Supreme Court appears forthright
in her innovative or maverick delivery of the much-awaited judgment. It is also envisaged that the Apex
court will be persuaded to give judgment in line with the appellants and
respondents’ pleadings/ submissions without adopting a volte-face. If this
happens then justice will be seen to have been dispensed and the Supreme Court
would have consummated Gulak’s apotheosis. A rerun verdict by the Supreme Court
may in this circumstance give better legitimacy to whoever that will be the
substantive Imo governor. Harry Fanon is a philosopher and a
jurisprudence lawyer; he writes from the United Kingdom (email: hfanon@yahoo.com)