The
Federal Government has called on States that have  increased the Right of Way Charges to
reconsider such  move. Minister of
Communications and Digital Economy,Dr Isa Ali Ibrahim (Pantami), made this call in a statement Tuesday. Pantami
said “We are therefore calling on all State Governors, especially those that
have made public their decisions to increase the RoW charges, to reconsider
these decisions in the interest of Nigerians as well as for the socio-economic
growth and development of the country. He
added, “We also draw their attention to the fact that these decisions, if
implemented, will result in an increase in the costs of operations of the
telecoms operators which will naturally be passed to the consumers. “We received with dismay the decision of some
states of the Federation to increase the Right of Way charges in disregard of
the resolutions reached by the National Economic Council (NEC). Giving
some insight into the FG’s decision, Pantami said, “It may be recalled that in
2013, NEC set up a Committee comprising State Governors and Ministers to review
the issues of multiple taxation in the telecommunications industry in Nigeria
and its impact. The Committee, after extensive and wide-ranging consultations,
resolved to harmonize the taxes applicable to broadband-related activities and
streamline the taxation management processes across the Federation.
Specifically, to deepen broadband penetration for the social and economic
development of the Country, the Committee agreed to the uniform Right of Way
(RoW) charge of N145.00 per linear meter of fibre. “It
may also be recalled that in October 2019, we had written to all the State
Governors, drawing their attention to these resolutions and soliciting their
support and collaboration towards the realisation of the National Digital
Economy by fast-tracking the deployment of broadband infrastructure for the
provision of affordable internet services to underserved and unserved areas. “It
is true that the digital economy today is strategically dominating the world
economy. Oxford Economics puts the current value of the digital economy at
$11.5 trillion which is about 16% of the world economy. Furthermore, the World
Economic Forum revealed that 60% of the global economy is expected to be
digitised by 2022. With the renaming of the Federal Ministry of Communications
to Federal Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy as well as the
unveiling of the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy by Mr President,
we are on the path of realising the potentials of the digital economy. “It
is, however, disheartening to hear that some States have decided to disregard
these resolutions and have, in some cases, increased the RoW charges by over
1,200%. This will no doubt impact negatively on the efforts being made by the
Federal Government. It is established that there is a strong correlation
between a country’s broadband penetration and its Gross Domestic Product (GDP).
An ITU study on Africa indicates that a 10% broadband penetration would result
in an increase of 2.5% of GDP per capita,” the Minister said.