The All Progressives Congress (APC) has called on the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP to return the  resources of the country allegedly stolen during the 16-year rule of the party. National Publicity Secretary, All Progressives Congress (APC), Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu who made this assertion Sunday also asked the PDP offer sincere apologies for the havoc it wreaked on the nation. Issa-Onilu’s
call  was contained his party’s reaction
to a reported call by 2019 PDP Presidential Candidate, Atiku Abubakar’s advice
that members should focus on rebuilding instead of election matters now. The APC statement reads; “Return of
our stolen resources and sincere apologies for the havoc wreaked on the country
during the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) 16-year rule should be the
preoccupation of PDP. “The All Progressives Congress (APC)
offers this as a new year counseling to Alhaji Atiku Abubakar following his own
tongue-in-cheek advice to his party, the PDP, urging them to concentrate on
strengthening and rebuilding the PDP for now, rather that dissipating energy on
the 2023 elections. Clearly, the former PDP presidential candidate was anything
but sincere in his advice. Issa –Onilu said, “Atiku and the PDP
represent the wasted past which Nigerians have chosen to discard and correct.
The era when national assets were a bazaar for cronies and friends; an era when
funds were approved and released for projects that were never executed; an era
of waste and impunity; an era of voodoo economy; an era when corruption was a
state policy. According to him, “Nigerians now
enjoy a new dispensation which has ensured massive infrastructural development
covering the rail, road, agriculture, aviation, ports, education and health
sectors. The resolute and pro-people intervention by the President Muhammadu
Buhari government has ensured the plugging of revenue leakages, oil sector
reforms, anti-corruption policies, economic diversification, rapid
infrastructure development, intensification of fight against violent
extremism among others. “Particularly in the fight against
public sector corruption, the recently-launched Open Treasury Portal (OTP)
complements previous initiatives such as the administration’s full
implementation of the Treasury Single Account (TSA) which has increased the
level of accountability and transparency in the financial resources of the
government; stoppage of budget padding, contrary to what we witnessed
throughout the 16 years of the PDP and pruning out thousands of ghost workers
through stricter implementation of Integrated Personnel Payroll System (IPPIS). “While ongoing diversification
efforts have recorded great successes particularly in the agricultural sector,
oil sector reforms have been landmark. Fuel queues have vanished, cross border
smuggling of petroleum products, the subsidy racket and roundtripping by oil
marketers which were all perfected under successive PDP administrations have
been checked. “The Nigerian National Petroleum
Corporation (NNPC) recently reported a massive drop of 570 million litres from
the 1.76 billion litres at 55.74 million litres per day distributed in July
2019, a direct result of government’s effort to check cross border smuggling
activities. “Post-election, Atiku has been
afforded an opportunity to defend himself on the several corruption and
criminal indictments that have troubled him in his serial presidential election
contests, particularly during the 2019 presidential election. Atiku has rather
continued to play the ostrich. “Instead of Atiku focusing on how to
corner the 2023 presidential ticket of the PDP or any of the other political
parties where he may choose to purchase his ticket, we call on Atiku, along
with other PDP leaders to find the courage to return our resources and seek
forgiveness from Nigerians.”