Nigeria on Thursday identified nine priority areas that would guide its foreign policy actions in the next four years. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Geoffrey Onyeama made this known in Abuja while briefing members of the diplomatic corps on the priorities of the Nigerian government. The priority areas include are: building a striving sustainable economy; enlarging agricultural output, food security and export; as well as attaining energy sustenance and power. Others include expanding transport and other infrastructural products; expanding business growth entrepreneurship and industrialisation; expanding access to quality education, affordable healthcare and productivity of Nigeria; enhancing social inclusion, reducing poverty; fighting corruption; as well as improving governance and security for all. In the first term of the present administration, government’s priority was in three key areas, namely: fighting corruption, tackling insecurity, and job creation. He said that Nigeria’s foreign policy would henceforth be realistic in terms of reflecting the domestic reality of putting “Nigeria First”. “We promote within the African Union (AU) good governance, democracy, and protection of human rights. “We are not in any kind of conflict with any country in the whole world and we have excellent relations with every member state of AU and UN. “We believe firmly that peaceful coexistence and security are pre-conditions for economic development and prosperity. “We believe that UN and multilateralism are forces for good. “We strongly support the UN, although we call for its reform especially to increase the number of its permanent members in its security council to include at least three African countries with veto powers,” he added. The minister said that more funds should be made available for UN peace-keeping operations. Onyeama, who said that the UN was doing a great job across many countries of the world, urged such countries to continue to abide by UN resolutions, not choosing which ones to respect and which not to respect. He condemned the use of force for the settlement of disputes and expressed strong support for institutions such as the International Court of Justice and International Criminal Court for International conflict resolution. He said that international trade and economic diplomacy were the main focus of “our foreign policy. “We have to expand our trade; we have to innovate; we have to industrialise in order to lift our peoples out of poverty. “We are striving to increase bilateral trade with all your countries very often within the framework of a bilateral commission.” The minister disclosed that the ministry was building an online business machine portal to promote and facilitate cross-border trade. According to him, global climate action has posed a lot of threat to lives. He said that the Lake Chad which had been a major source of livelihood for more than 30 million people, had shrunk by 90 per cent due to climate change. He noted that irregular migration has been condemned and possible measures have been put in place to address it. On border closure, the minister said that the issue would be resolved very soon and that it would create be a win-win situation for stakeholders. He thanked the diplomats for their support and and assured them of the Nigeria’s continued support. (NAN)