The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, said
Friday that it has taken note of what it called insinuations and phantom claims
that the Commission is “prosecuting” Senator Shehu Sani, because he is a known
critic of the President Muhammadu Buhari administration. A statement signed by Acting Head, Media & Publicity, Tony Orilade, said, “The Commission wishes to state that Senator Shehu Sani
is currently facing criminal investigation, and he is being detained by the
EFCC in very conducive environment, based on a valid court order. EFCC further said, “Invariably, claims in some
quarters of the breach of his fundamental human rights, is merely in the
imagination of the purveyors of such claims. “Let it be stated clearly, that Senator Shehu Sani has
questions to answer as regards the alleged involvement in name-dropping, and
particularly that he obtained $25,000 from Alhaji Sani Dauda, the ASD Motors
boss, in order to help shield him from investigations being carried out by the
EFCC. The
anti-graft agency added that “For certain people to brazenly come out to defend
a suspect, who is being probed for a serious offence as the one committed by
Sani shows that they are not really conversant with his offence. “It
is unfortunate that certain people are ready to do anything to support evil for
pecuniary gains. This is quite unfortunate!”EFCC said. Newsdiaryonline
reports that  EFCC’s official statement
on the Shehu Sani saga came a day reports emerged that the for Senator  insisted on his innocence. He reportedly said
he was being persecuted  for being a
critic of the government. Sani however said he could not be silenced despite
the  alleged persecution. Shehu Sani: HURIWA condemns arbitrariness of EFCC: Meanwhile, a civil
Rights Advocacy group – Human Rights Writers Association Of Nigeria (HURIWA)
has condemned what it called the undue manifestation of arbitrariness by the
Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) in the matter involving the
former senator representing Kaduna Central Senator SHEHU SANI and the Kaduna
businessman Alhaji Sani Dauda. In a
media statement by the National Coordinator Comrade Emmanuel Onwubiko and the
National Media Affairs Director Miss Zainab Yusuf, Human Rights Writers
Association Of Nigeria (HURIWA) accused the EFCC of discrimination in the
treatment of Senator Shehu Sani apparently because of his status as a
well-known critic of President Muhammadu Buhari which may have informed his
continued arbitrary detention. “Why is
the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) refusing to grant bail to
this well-known civil Rights activist and politician Senator Shehu Sani? Why is
his own matter different when there are a plethora of instances of politicians
of all political persuasions who have been invited by the anti-graft body,
interrogated and released on bail. Even the disgraced erstwhilst secretary to
the government of the federation Mr. Babachir Lawal allegedly implicated in the
multi-million contract scam related to the fund of the internally displaced
persons of the North East of Nigeria, never spent up to six hours with the
Economic and Financial Crimes Commission. But Senator Shehu Sani who has
maintained his innocence of the accusations leveled against him by one person,
is still being kept in detention without the anti-graft body either filing
charges or releasing him on bail.” Besides,
the Rights group believes that the arrest and detention of Senator Shehu Sani
known for his persistent but constructive criticism of the failings of the
current All Progressives Congress – led Federal government is progressively
revealing to be without reasonable cause and the trends are increasingly
manifesting that he may
after all be a political hostage or prisoner of conscience which
contravenes all known municipal and international human rights laws. May we by
this medium inform President Muhammadu Buhari that all human beings including
his critics such as Senator Shehu Sani have the right to liberty and security.
It is imperative that Senator Shehu Sani is released immediately from the
arbitrary arrest and detention because irrespective of their treaty 
obligations, all states are bound by international law to respect and ensure
everybody’s right to liberty and security of the person and this is obviously a
universal legal responsibility which the Nigerian state must uphold at all
times. Article 9(1) of the international covenant on civil and political Rights
provides that: “Everyone has the right to liberty and security of person. No
one shall be subjected to arbitrary arrest or detention. No one shall be
deprived of his liberty except on such grounds and in accordance with such
procedure as are established by law.” The continuous detention of Senator Shehu
Sani without any kind of reasonable cause is unconstitutional and illegal. The
discriminatory denial of even administrative bail to him is a violation of
section 42(1) of the Nigerian constitution. Section 42(1) states as follows: “A
citizen of Nigeria of a particular community, ethnic group, place of origin,
sex, religion or political opinion shall not, by reason only that he is such a
person:- (a) be subjected either expressly by, or in the practical application
of, any law in force in Nigeria or any executive or administrative action of
the government, to disabilities or restrictions to which citizens of Nigeria of
other communities, ethnic groups, places of origin, sex, religions or political
opinions are not made subject; or (b) be accorded either expressly by, or in
the practical application of, any law in force in Nigeria or any such executive
or administrative action, any privilege or advantage that is not accorded to
citizens of Nigeria of other communities, ethnic groups, places of origin, sex,
religions or political opinions.” HURIWA
recalled that the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission around December
ending last year confirmed the arrest of the former senator representing Kaduna
Central, Shehu Sani and that he is now being quizzed in our Jabi
headquarters in Abuja. HURIWA
quoting information released to the media by the EFCC According Senator Shehu
Sani  allegedly collected money from the chairman and CEO of ASD Motors,
his namesake Sani Dauda, under the pretence of passing it as bribe to EFCC
boss, Ibrahim Magu. Sani
Dauda was a former chairman of Peugeot Automobile Nigeria Limited(PAN). His ASD
Motors is a major car dealer in Abuja. However,
HURIWA disclosed that from a written statement sent to it by the detained
Senator through his office, he has categorically denied all the allegations and
accused the EFCC of attempting to rope him into a phantom charge of
criminality.  HURIWA affirmed thus: Senator Shehu Sani has just denied all
the allegations as follows: • The allegations of “extortion” against me
is baseless, factless, unfounded, hollow and unsubstantial. • It is a scripted stream of mischievous
concoctions and utter fabrications using a puppet state agent; all aimed at
splashing feaces and mud on me. • The extortion allegation is nothing but a
wholesale falsehood, packaged in a phantom anti-graft facade to taint, stain
and mute me. That shall never happen if I am alive. • I have made my statement and provided all
my facts against their package of lies and I demand the EFCC to make public all
the sheets of our statements and supporting documents for the world to see. • My detention is unfair, unjust,
prearranged and politically motivated. • Alhaji Sani Dauda and his hidden sponsors
have not been able to provide any proof of their allegations. I’m unjustly
incarcerated on the ground of an arranged two page petition backed with no
evidential or documentary proof. • Fascism thrives in frame up of its
critics. • They claim extortion and here they are
closing my bank accounts, searching my houses and offices and demanding I
declare my assets of which I have already done that at the CCB last year when I
left the senate. • Frame up cannot silence me!!! • I have never ever met with the CJN or any
judge or judges or ever called directly or indirectly to offer to give or to
give directly or indirectly any form of gratification from Alhaji Sani Dauda • I have never ever discussed with ASD on
any form of bribe or gratification to be given to any judge or any EFCC
official • The bribe story is phantom, the bribe
story is a fake, imaginative work of fiction, cruelly crafted to smear me, to
frame me and to justify my persecution. • The bribe story is a heap of blatant lies
and outright falsehood concocted and fabricated, using a front and the EFCC to
premiere a state drama • ASD is a barely educated front for a state
mission. • Criminalizing me or “framing me” will not
silence me, bend me or compromise me.