By Danlami Nmodu A war of words has broken out between former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, founder of Gotel TV, and Mr John Chiahemen, former managing director of the TV channel. It was Atiku who threw the first salvo in a statement released last week by his Media Adviser,Paul Ibe titled: “On the Matter of Gotel Expatriates.” In it, the former vice president said, “some persons purporting to be expatriate staff of Gotel Communications Limited, founded by Atiku Abubakar have caused to be published media reports suggesting that they are owed salaries. Nothing can be (farther) from the truth.” Atiku, in an apparent bid to distance himself from salaries he allegedly owes, disclosed that, “To retool its operations, Gotel had in 2013 hired one Mr. John Chiahemen to lead the planning, design, build-out and rollout of TV Gotel Africa to be based in Abuja. “To this end, (Chiahemen) was given a free hand by the founder and board of the company to run the affairs of Gotel. “Requisite resources, as requested by (Chiahemen) were made available. On his own part, Chiamehen had committed to a revenue profile of N150 million, among others. “But by 2016, there were concerns that the (Chiahemen) management was only long in promises and short in performance, prompting the then board to empanel an adhoc visitation committee to examine the state of the company. The findings of that committee were damning,” Atiku disclosed. The former vice President’s assertions among others, have elicited a feisty response from Mr Chiahemen who said in a statement sent to Newsdiaryonline that Atiku’s claims comprised “some false and libelous allegations against my person.” Mr Chiahemen further said, “The allegation that funds meant for the payment of salaries of both local and expatriates staff of Gotel were made available to me is not only false but also malicious. For the record, I was not the Group Financial Director or Group Financial Controller of Gotel. To be clear, funds dedicated to the payment of salaries of staff were not in my custody. The Group Financial Controller was the paymaster in all matters of funds relating to the Gotel Africa Project. Payroll and operational funds were provided on a month-by-month basis, when they were, by the Financial Controller and my management merely disbursed them. “I am aware that prior to my unceremonious removal as the Managing Director, payment of salaries had become difficult since mid-2015, and the Group Financial Controller had informed management on several occasions that this was due to the downturn in Nigeria’s economy. Consequently, management did not renew contracts for international staff when they came to an end and others agreed to cut theirs short and leave by the end of 2015,” Chiahemen said. For the Record: Newsdiaryonline has decided to publish the claims of the two parties below: On the Matter of Gotel Expatriates It has come to our notice that some persons purporting to be expatriate staff of Gotel Communications Limited, founded by Atiku Abubakar have caused to be published media reports suggesting that they are owed salaries. Nothing can be further from the truth. To retool its operations, Gotel had in 2013 hired one Mr. John Chiahemen to lead the planning, design, build-out and rollout of TV Gotel Africa to be based in Abuja. To this end, Chiamehen was given a free hand by the founder and board of the company to run the affairs of Gotel. Requisite resources, as requested by Chiamehen were made available. On his own part, Chiamehen had committed to a revenue profile of N150 million, among others. But by 2016, there were concerns that the Chiamehen management was only long in promises and short in performance, prompting the then board to empanel an adhoc visitation committee to examine the state of the company. The findings of that committee were damning. Consequently, the committee recommended the need for a comprehensive audit of the company. The audit revealed serious fiduciary infractions by the Chiamehen led management. Further to the audit report, a board meeting was convened to consider the auditor’s report. However, before that meeting, Mr. John Chiamehen bolted and has refused to make himself available to account for the huge resources put in his charge. For the avoidance of doubt, the funds dedicated to the payment of salaries of staff, both local and expatriates that were engaged by Chiamehen himself were made available to him. All those concerned are advised to contact Mr. Chiamehen accordingly. On the 14th of December 2016, a formal petition on alleged breach of trust, fraud and misappropriation of funds against the former managing director/CEO was filed at the FCIID (Interpol) for investigation. Mr. Chiamehen is encouraged to make himself available to give account of all monies put in his charge during his tenure as MD/CEO of Gotel. Signed: Paul Ibe Media Adviser to Atiku Abubakar Vice President of Nigeria, 1999-2007 RESPONSE BY JOHN CHIAHEMEN TO A PUBLICATION “ON THE MATTER OF GOTEL EXPATRIATES”  My attention has been drawn to a publication in The News/PM News and Sahara Reporters online news sites, both of January 16, 2020, captioned ‘On the matter of Gotel Expatriates’ (“the publication”). In the publication, Paul Ibe, the Media Adviser to Gotel’s Founder, His Excellency Atiku Abubakar, made some false and libelous allegations against my person to which I am compelled to respond in order to correct the misrepresentations and misinformation contained therein.  In the publication, it was alleged that I, John Chiahemen, was given a free hand by the founder and board of Gotel Communications Ltd and Gotel Africa Media Ltd (Gotel) to run the affairs of the companies, that requisite resources, as requested by me were made available; that by 2016, there were concerns that the Chiahemen management was only long in promises and short in performance, prompting the then board to empanel an adhoc visitation committee to examine the state of the company and that the findings of that committee were damning. It was further alleged in the publication that the visitation committee recommended the need for a comprehensive audit of the company; that the audit revealed serious fiduciary infractions by the Chiahemen led management; that further to the audit report, a board meeting was convened to consider the auditor’s report; that before that meeting of the board, Mr. John Chiahemen bolted and has refused to make himself available to account for the huge resources put under his charge.  The publication also stated that “for the avoidance of doubt, the funds dedicated to the payment of salaries of staff, both local and expatriates that were engaged by Chiahemen himself were made available to him. All those concerned are advised to contact Mr. Chiahemen accordingly.”  The publication concluded by stating that on the 14th day of December 2016, a formal petition on alleged breach of trust, fraud and misappropriation of funds against me was filed at the FCIID (Interpol) for investigation and advised that I make myself available to give account of all monies allegedly put under my charge during my tenure as the MD/CEO of Gotel.  I wish to inform the general public that the allegations levelled against me in the said publication are false, malicious, and a carefully orchestrated attempt to tarnish my image. I am talking with my lawyers with a view to seeking appropriate legal redress against the authors of the publication but in the meantime, I have responded below to the specific allegations made against me in the said publication.  Funds meant for the payment of Gotel staff salaries (local and expatriate) were not made available to me.