By Haruna Salami The office of the Deputy President of the Senate,  Senator Ovie
Omo-Agege has denied the alleged conviction of the Senator by a Californian
Court in the USA. A press release signed by Mr.  Yomi Odunuga, Special Adviser, Media and
Publicity to the Deputy President of the Senate said the whole story was a
handiwork of “mischief makers and political jobbers”. He said  “Ordinarily, we would have ignored this latest effort by
political jobbers to drag the name of the Distinguished Senator into
disrepute. “However, in a political environment like ours where silence could be
misinterpreted as consent and  evidence of guilt, we make haste to dismiss
the entire allegation as not only unfounded and illogical; it is the residue of
the warped imaginations and misleading  rumour peddled without conviction
some years back. “While the distinguished Senator remains completely unperturbed by the
nattering nabobs of negativity and their faceless sponsors, it remains clear
that this is another feeble round of mere shadow- chasing that ultimately
amounts to nothing. “For the umpteenth time, we would like to reiterate the fact that
Senator Ovie Omo-Agege was cleared of all charges in the said case and he was
never a convict in the USA as being alleged. Till date, he travels freely to
and within the country without any hint of harassment. The statement said further,”We publish herewith details of our response
to the same spurious allegation on September 25, 2018: “To this extent, by
way of ‘fair commentary’ only, we will speak to the non-existent criminal
conviction knowing that the matter is now in court and therefore subjudice. We
will meet the blackmailer in court. “The fact is, at a point in his brilliant and bright legal career in
California, USA, Senator Omo-Agege (then a young attorney) was alleged to have
broken the law in California but in the end, he was found not guilty. “Accordingly, he was declared innocent by the honourables Lance A. Ito (who
presided over the popular O.J. Simpson murder trial case) and G. Magnera of the
Court of California, County of Los Angeles. Omo-Agege had to fight hard for his
innocence and God vindicated him against the expectations of evil men like the
most sadistic blackmailer in the world. “Today, he remains an active member in good standing at the State of
California Bar Association – an impossibility  if a valid and subsisting
conviction were hanging on him. These are verifiable public facts and
truths.” “We state, without any equivocation, that Senator Ovie Omo-Agege is
committed to his mandate and would not be distracted by the antics of
disgruntled and defeated politicians hiding behind a so-called ‘youth
group’  without any meaningful antecedent, seeking to stir up confusion
through mere mischief and without facts. “Let it be put on record that while his media office has been strictly
instructed not to descend into the gutter to play their piggery games of petty
mischief, the Senator has nothing to hide and he would continue with his
passionate desire and populist dynamism, towards making Nigeria a better nation
for future generations. It will be recalled that Senator Ovie Omo-Agege visited the USA and Canada
over the past few days, where according to the statement, held “the beacon
of progressive ideology and an agenda for improving Nigeria’s image
internationally. “On the contrary, an unscrupulous band of mischief makers at home
calling itself a ‘youth group’ purportedly led by one Solomon Adodo is seeking
to mislead gullible people with lies and propaganda by calling for the
immediate resignation of the Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ovie
Omo-Agege,  over a spurious and malicious allegation of a conviction by a
Californian court”.