By Chimezie Godfrey A coalition of civil society
organizations has called for the immediate resignation of the Deputy Senate
President, Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege for concealing his conviction by the State Bar
Court of California, from INEC and the Nigerian Senate. The call was made on Monday in Abuja
during a press conference, by a group of CSOs which includes Guardians of
Democracy, Partners for Legislative Agenda for Nigeria (PLAN), Empowerment for
Unemployed Youth Initiative, and six other groups under the coalition of Civil
Society and Youth groups. According to the Convener, Coalition
of Civil Society and Youths Groups in Nigeria, and National Coordinator,
Employment for Unemployed Youths Initiative, Solomon Adodo, the call was
necessitated by available evidence that Senator Omo-Agege concealed his
conviction from the INEC and the Nigerian Senate. He said,”The Guardians of
Democracy and Development, Partners for Legislative Agenda for Nigeria (PLAN),
Empowerment for Unemployed Youth Initiative and our partners under the
Coalition of Civil Society and Youth Groups in Nigeria herein call for the
immediate resignation of the Deputy President of the Senate – Senator Ovie
Omo-Agege – owing to available evidence that he was convicted by the State Bar
Court of the State of California, Los Angeles, USA in case No.
94-C-14401. “Furthermore, Sen. Ovie
Omo-Agege willfully concealed the fact of the said conviction from the
Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the Nigerian Senate
thereby contravening the provisions of the Nigerian Constitution and the Rules
of the Senate. “Incontrovertible documentary
evidences available to us reveal that sometime in April 22, 1996, Augustine O.
Omo-Agege believed to be one and the same Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege was ordered to be
suspended from the practice of Law following his conviction for violating
California Penal Code section 470, a felony criminal offense involving moral
turpitude, under the authority of subdivision (a) of rule 951, California Rules
of Court. “Our scrupulous findings reveal
that the said Augustine O. Omo-Agege was admitted into the State Bar of
California on December 14, 1992. “The records reveal that on or
about March 7, 1992, the said Augustine O. Omo-Agege was alleged to have
committed the crime of forgery of Check in violation of Penal code section 470,
a felony. “Furthermore, on or about March
7, 1993 the said Augustine O. Omo-Agege was alleged to have committed the crime
of perjury-application for Driver’s license in the County of Los Angeles in
violation of Penal code section 118, a felony. “Following a lengthy
prosecution of the said allegations levelled against Augustine O. Omo-Agege, he
was convicted of violating California Penal code section 470 and was also
subsequently suspended from the practice of law pending final disposition of
the proceeding. “As true Guardians of Democracy
and firm advocates of transparency in governance, we are deeply perturbed at
the fact that Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege concealed all these information from the
Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) thus he was allowed to
participate in the general elections (contrary to Constitutional provisions)
that produced him as Senator representing Delta Central Senatorial
District. “In violation of the Senate
Rules he also concealed the said information from the Nigerian Senate thereby
paving the way for his emergence as Deputy President of the Senate.” Adodo pointed out that all these
have resulted in the denigration of the image and esteem of the Nigerian Senate
before the international body of legislators. “We can confidently state
howbeit with patriotic pains and disenchantment that Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege can
not confidently and freely lead a Team of legislators to Capitol Hill for any
meeting with the US Senate owing to the weight of conviction against him in the
United States of America. “It should further be brought
to our memories that sometime around April 18, 2018, Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege who
was on suspension at the time, sneaked in through one of the glass barricades
within the National Assembly complex and had the legislative mace seized by
thugs allegedly under his instruction. “This act in itself cast odium
and deep negative aspersions on the image and integrity of the 8th
Assembly. “His subsequent emergence as
Deputy President of the Senate in the 9th Assembly only went a great length in
making a mockery of the 9th Assembly and the Nigerian Democratic System as a
whole. “Let it be noted that all of
these crimes alleged to have been committed by Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege cannot be
wished away and the Senate will only be playing the Ostrich by not taking the
necessary actions against the ethical misconduct of this prominent
legislator,” he stressed. He disclosed that in consideration
of these unimpeachable facts as stated, the coalition has made  urgent
demands that the said Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege should be prevailed upon by the
Nigerian Senate to resign from Office and his Senatorial Seat declared vacant. “In the event that Sen. Ovie
Omo-Agege hesitates in resigning from Office, impeachment proceedings should be
immediately initiated against him in order to redeem the battered image of the
Nigerian Senate. “The law enforcement Agency
should immediately initiate fresh prosecution against Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege for
the grievous offence of perjury and denigration of the Nigerian Constitution,”
he said. The group also threatened that in
the event that immediate actions are not taken within 72 hours of this notice,
that they shall be left with no other option than to mobilize thousands of
Civil Society and Youth Groups to occupy the National Assembly until she is
purged of corrupt elements. The statement was signed by Comr.
Solomon Adodo Convener, Coalition of Civil Society and Youth Groups in Nigeria
and National Coordinator, Empowerment for Unemployed Youths Initiative, 
and Comr. Danesi Momoh Guardians of Democracy and Development. Others are Comr. Khalifa Bello Adamu
for Partners for Legislative Agenda for Nigeria, Amb. Edwin Olorunfemi, Center
for Policy Advocacy and Leadership Development, and Mallam Balarabe Musa for
Arewa Youth for Peace and Security. Newsdiaryonline reports that Omo-Agege has debunked the assertions,describing them as the handiwork of mischief makers. (Click the link to read his response)