zainabsule@yahoo.com, www.zainabokino.blogspot.com When
President Muhammadu Buhari signed the 2020 budget into law on December 17,
2019, the frenzy about returning to a January-December budget cycle, which
followed, far outweighed the scrutiny that the budget should be subjected to.
This is because we are now in a new era of executive-legislative mutually
beneficial partnership, which may leave the people out of the loop, despite
their crucial role of electing them (the president and the legislators) into
office. So, after the ceremony, the klieglights and photo opportunity that went with it, what is there for the electorate in terms of development plan that can better their lives and environment? Prior to the budget signing, the Federal Executive Council, in an executive fiat, raised VAT, which has been jerked up from 5% to 7.5%, a hike of 50% that may usher in a gloomy time in the year; it takes effect from January 2020. There was no opposition from our constitutionally guaranteed
independent legislature, despite being vested with the power to enact and amend
laws and the supremacy of the constitution over any other provisions
whatsoever. Therefore the VAT hike has come to stay without complaints from our
Representatives-legislators nor resistance from the Nigerian people, just like
the petrol price hike earlier in the current administration. According to Deloitte Nigeria, in its analysis of the budget and
its implication for Business; “Without a corresponding adjustment to the VAT
system, the increment may turn out to have a higher impact than envisaged. This
is more so as entities will ultimately seek to pass the cost to end users. This
may result in increased inflation”.   Thus, with a high unemployment
rate and insecurity, overburdened Nigerians will have to bear the brunt of the
effect of VAT hike. Yet our representatives at the National Assembly did not
ask questions, debate, discuss, or even blink, because of the cooperation 
between them and the executive. Budget padding was a major source of controversy between the
Bukola Saraki Senate and the Buhari administration. In the 2020 budget, the
executive proposed 10.33 trillion and the National Assembly increased it to
N10.6 trillion with a difference of N264 billion. President Buhari did not
unleash his attack dogs on Senate President Ahmed Lawan; there were no
placard-carrying protesters calling Lawan unprintable names and demanding his
impeachment. They all laughed and exchanged banters, to their eternal shame,
and at the detriment of separation of powers and checks and balances inherent
in a constitutional democracy like ours. Even as we celebrate the cosy and cordial association between the
leaderships of the two arms of government, what will be the cost of that bond
at the end of the day in terms of budget performance and development? Whereas N48 billion and N46 billion was proposed for education and
health respectively, renovation of the National Assembly complex was given N37
billion, and no one in the executive complained. Capital expenditure was put at N2.46 trillion as against recurrent
expenditure of N3.6 trillion. I asked my investment banker friend what the
implication of this and she said the amount earmarked for Capital expenditure
is too little to support development and the VAT increase will amount to nought
if there are no economic activities to support the expected increase. So, what economic activities is the government creating in terms
of diversification, especially in the manufacturing sector? Our National
Assembly members who should point out these errors and seek to correct them for
the benefit of the state and citizens kept quite in the name of a new found
friendship. Again, the Senate President has said, anything from the executive
is in the general interest of the people and so will be accepted by the
lawmakers. Just like the Senate President, the speaker also said he was not
elected to fight the executive. Lawan and Gbajamialia got it wrong. They spoke
as party men and not as leaders of the National Assembly that belongs to all.
They are also unmindful of their roles and responsibilities to guide the
executive, in national and public interest, and not to acquiesce to their
(executive) whims. Their actions and utterances are not helpful in strengthening
democracy. And seeking to please the president instead of the people is what we
call eye-service in Nigeria, and history will not be kind to them, for being
yes men and Buhari’s puppets instead of being proactive in the service of the
country. The devil they say is in the details. This budget is fraught with
such devilish details, which Premium Times pointed out in its report
then, and which provisions, it described as vague, frivolous, self enrichment
projects “smuggled into the budget by federal lawmakers”. For example the FCTA
budget was jacked up by NASS from N28.4 billion to N62.41 billion, but that of
Universal Basic Education (UBE) is the most absurd. Its capital allocation was
upped from N4 billion to N26.2 billion, with provision for supply of such
mundane things as instructional materials to various schools in the Northeast
at N500 million in a supposed capital allocation. Again, imagine a capital expenditure of N34 million being
increased to N51 billion for the presidency’s office of Millennium Development
Goals (SSA-MDGS), some of it being for the supply of  goods, fertilizers,
rice, maize and beans in Katsina. If the National Assembly could allow this
bizarre stuff to pass without scrutiny, what is it if not a rubber stamp
National Assembly? In the final analysis this new found bond of friendship between
two critical arms of government may leave us with a bloodied nose. Since it is
a give and take thing between them, there is no one to speak in favour of good
governance, national interest and development of the country. Both arms need to understand that over-sighting one another as
envisaged by the constitution is to engender good governance for the good of
all; it is neither a crime nor an offence to point out misdemeanours on the
part of either of the arms of government, and those who do so do not like
Buhari any less. Out of a total figure of N10.33 trillion, debt servicing will take
a lion share of N2.45 trillion, almost a quarter of the budget. There is
nothing wrong in borrowing parse and servicing it afterwards, but everything is
wrong with borrowed funds that are not tied to specific projects. That is way
accountability and transparency are lost in the process. Our legislators should
perform their functions and oversight the president, make laws and ensure the
laws are executed and punish its non-execution. Passing of budget at
record time is not an achievement on its own; what is passed and how it is
implemented are more important. And in the spirit of separation of powers, the
loyalty of both legislators and the president should be to the state and not to
one arm of government, and none should be subservient to the other.