Dr.
Abdulrahman Musa Adeiza, is the
President General of Ebira Peoples Association (EPA), he spoke on the political
situation in Kogi State and the just concluded Governorship election. Excerpts, first  published by Kogiflame.com : What
is your view on the election? We appreciate God almighty for all
he had done for us during the election. The election came and went , and a
winner has emerged , but in totality the entire state is the winner , what ever
might have been the shot coming of the election should serve as a source of
correction for future election. I will personally like to sympathised with
those that sustain one injury or the other during the election and I will like
to comensurate with those who lost their love one during the election , but
then I will like to point out that whatever we are having as a democracy in
Nigeria today, it is still at a teething stage and a lot of changes need to be
done to moderate and modify it I believe there is need to utilise the
advantages of technology to modify the electoral process of the country so that
electorate can even cast their votes electronically so that the issue of
queuing up will not be there again. This will invariably end electoral
violence as people can vote from their homes , offices, market and other
places. This is achievable through the commitment of the government and
gradually the country will perfect the electoral process. This will also go a
long way in reducing the high rate of violence often experienced during
elections, the issue and complaints of ballot snatching will be permanently
solved . Regardless of the little hitches experienced during the Governorship
election in Kogi, the election was good , free and fair . I want to use this
opportunity to congratulate the winner of Kogi state governorship election
Alhaji Yahaya Bello who have demonstrated often time that he is capable and can
withstand pressure to move the state to the next level of development and I
wish him all the best Recently the three major tribes form a coalition , can
you tell us what the coalition stand for ? Yes , for now I am not authorised to
speak on behalf of the coalition but definitely we are going to speak out and
talk about the development in the state , but I can say that we have met twice
and the next time we meet we will come out with a resolution. However , what
borders us much is the peace and unity of the state and we have called on the
entire people of the state to close ranks and come together in support of
whoever is in government. We are calling on every body to be peace loving and
ensure that we don’t allow a single incident to go deep down to possibly divide
the entire state. We are united in calling our people to maintain the current
peace and to support the winner of the election so that the government can be
successful in delivering the dividend of democracy to the people which is key
in any Democratic setting. If the government is not successful, it is the
entire state that will carry the burden and the burden as a result of failure
of administration is never limited to any particular tribe , but so far we
observed that the winner of the election which is the APC has a sizeable
proportion of supporters across the three senatorial districts meaning that the
victory can not be limited to a certain set of people or tribe alone and to
this extent , we believe that if the government indulge in peace measures, the
entire state will be in a position to initiate a lot of development and we
believe that the current government is in a position to ensure the development
of the state . KOCUDA is determined to ensure that
we have a focus in the state and one of the paramount thing that has been
lacking in the state and indeed the entire country is lack of focus and there
is no country in the world that can develop if there is not central focus and
where there is no central focus every body is bound to withdraw to his or her
primordial sentiment which is not good for us. When you take America for
instance , their democracy is built on three factors which are freedom,
capitalism and liberalism. If you have these three items , there is no
president that can effect change on these three fundamental things and
successive administrations only built on it in the interest of American . The
entire economy of Japan is based on value added and even the schools there, are
designed to achieve this, people are trained on value addition . Japan does not
have crude oil ,but they have about forty – three refineries , they buy the
crude oil refined and sent to other countries , they end up creating jobs and
generate revenue for the country through what they don’t have naturally. Also
if you go to South Africa , they have prided themselves to be the leading
country in ICT in Africa and what do they do with that?  They ensure that they have DSTV, MTN and
others . With these items South Africa became a house hold name in Africa and
even beyond because there is no home you enter today in Nigeria that you not
see MTN or DSTV. Through these they were able to
developed the curriculum of schools and the attitude of their people focus on
the ICT and when you have a central focus like that no body will now withdraw
to sentiment and the interest will be central or national interest. I want to
believe that our governor Alhaji Yahaya Bello will find a way of creating a
focus for the entire state where eventually the overriding effect will be the
state instead of primordial issues of where I come from and when the overriding
issue arises it will be enough to galvanized the interest of the people for the
advancement of the state and generally development will be achieved. Ajaokuta
steel complex is money spinning industry laying fallow in your constituency and
in Kogi state, what is your association doing to ensure that it come back to
life? A lot of things have been done in
the past and at present . So many letters has been written to the federal
government to see the reasons for the completion of Ajaokuta steel company and
make it operational. We have also interacted with many people at the hierarchy
of government not this administration alone. It is a fact that Ajaokuta steel
complex is not an Ebira project , it is a federal government project which
means the entire country owned it , but we have made a concerted effort to the
federal government for the completion of the project. We are glad that where we
are today with respect to the steel company, we are grateful to President
Muhammadu Buhari for the bold step he has taken of recent to ensure that the
giant steel complex in Africa is completed . We can not do any other thing than
to ensure that the people in the local area cooperate with the government to
see the completion of the project . Much has been done behind the scene
, some to the glare of the people and I am happy that the combine pressure we
have carried out in the past and now have persuaded the federal government to
develop the political will for the completion of the steel industry. No body
doubt the fact that it could have been a colossal waste if such giant steel
complex is in the country and abandoned to be importing steel products from
other countries to the tune of 3.2 trillion naira per annum. It is also a
simple fact that if the steel complex is functioning at 80 per cent capacity
the north central states will have no issue of unemployment because of the
opportunities and the potentials of the steel company. I am using this medium
to thank the father of the nation and the president of the federal republic of
Nigeria , President Muhammadu Buhari who have signed agreement with Russian
government for the completion of Ajaokuta steel company. We do hope that
nothing will militate against the take off of this company . It is also worthy
to note that the national assembly members may have notice certain lapses in
the effort put forward for the steel company, but they should also bear in mind
that there are period when necessity become a paramount thing that certain
decisions have to be taking boldly. If we start going into what have been done
and what have not been done , we will derail from a lot of good things in this
country and I want to use this opportunity to appeal to the national assembly
to see reason as to why they should also assist the president in ensuring that
his vision triumph over Ajaokuta steel complex. What
do you think the federal government can do to get things right in the next
general election coming up in 2023? Personally , I have always felt that
the way the democracy of this country was conceived called for a lot to be
desired. In 1999 when the country was moving from military regime to civilian
government, before then there was call for the formation of political parties
and the party guideline was so expensive and cumbersome to an extent that
people with good and lofty ideas did not have the money and were taken away out
of the circle. In other countries things are not done like that because there
are institutions that assist the people to circumvent the capital intensive
nature in participating in electoral process. In this country you will be
charged to open offices in virtually all the 774 local government areas of the
federation and if you are not rich you can not achieve that even if you have
good ideas that can move the country forward , but in other climes parties
enter informal agreement with institutions to say if you win we will produce
three ministers and as such the organisation or individuals rendered financial
assistance to the party. But in this country many people that are intelligent
are excluded from attaining the position of governance through the cumbersome
nature of party formation. The level we are today, the major
problem we have as a nation is the electoral process as a result of that the
country is developing certain level of democratic characters in such a way that
we are learning to tolerate protest which is different from military regime.
Gradually, if we can change the mode of election through revisiting of
electoral act, nothing stop us from using technology to conduct our elections
because what we are doing right now can not be say to be perfect . The use of
technology will also show the actual population of some ethnic groups that
claimed that they are large in number and it time government should not use
population alone for sharing of monthly allocation , this will discourage
padding of population during census. One nauseating thing being bandied around
as truth is the allocated census figures of the past which was designed to
reduce my people to a minority status. Much as this lie has been peddled around
for too long and now made to look like truth, I want to say with clear
equivocation that the past population figure allocated to my people, Evita was
at best fictitious, fraudulent and manipulated. I call it allocation because
the then powers that be in the state connived to contrive those figures
allocated to the west and central senatorial districts to ensure the perpetual
political domination of the east of the state over others. At this juncture I
will like to commend the Federal Government for their desire to conduct a more
credible and digital census. I am not in doubt that after that exercise the
truth shall be unveiled to the world and we shall be able to seek reparation
for the accumulated hurt and harm done to our district. The era of manipulative
dominance should be seen over considering the voters turn out vis a vis the
registered voters declared for each district by inec. The votes counted in each
area of dominance of the respective candidates against the backdrop of the
voters registered in such areas is probable demonstration of the population
strength of area. It is generally agreed that Alhaji
Yahaya Bello inherited the votes of Late Alh Abubakar after his painful demise.
He benefitted from the labour of Late Audu on the ground of the APC party being
the original owner of the votes and he as the second runner up at the party’s
primary was qualified with the entitlement of inheritance of the votes. It was
a painstaking process and exercise borne out of constitutional interpretations
and not a gentle man arrangement of power rotation to the other zones. It therefore need be tested at the
courts of law as yo whether GYB was actually having a first term or was merely
having there in the garb of another man’s votes and therefore just preparing to
start his own first term. In any case it is not debatable that the Central
Senatorial District is just about having its first term thereby making it
equitable for it to go for a second round in a two round rotation of
governorship seat that God has divinely decreed on our state with the death of
our Late leader, Abubakar Audu. I suggest having this at the back of our minds
stake holders in the state should now agree on a mode of power rotation in
pursuance of peace and unity of co habitation in the state.
Culled from Kogiflame.com