A private military contractor, Eeben Barlow, has provided a fresh insight as
to why the war against Boko Haram insurgents still persists almost five years
after incumbent Nigeria’s president, Muhammadu Buhari, assumed office in 2015 He said the BH terrorists are still on the prowl and launching deadly
attacks on innocent civilians and towns in the North East because of foreign
interests. The South African military consultant spoke during an interview with
Aljazeera. Barlow, who is the Chairman of Specialized Tasks Training Equipment and
Protection International, a foreign private Army, said their security outfit
had successfully liberated and recaptured back several towns in Borno State
from insurgents, prior to the inauguration of Buhari as President. This confirmed the report of PRNigeria
that during the tenure of Sambo Dasuki as the National Security Adviser (NSA)
under President Goodluck Jonathan, Nigerian troops with ‘foreign technical
assistance’ recovered many towns and villages from Boko Haram terrorists in
Adamawa, Borno and Yobe States. Some of the liberated towns then included, but
are not limited to, Abadam, Askira, Baga, Bama, Bara, Buni Yadi, Damboa, Dikwa,
Gamboru-Ngala, Goniri, Gujba, Gulag, Gulani, Gwoza, Hong, Kala Balge, Konduga,
Kukawa, Marte, Madagali, Michika, Monguno, Mubi, and Vimtim, among other
communities. The special operation also recorded a massive invasion of Sambisa
Forest where 234 abductees (women and children) were rescued on a single day,
April 30, 2015. But regrettably, the first thing the President did upon assuming office in
2015, according to Barlow, was to terminate their military contract in a bid to
gratify the United States of America, who he said sponsored Buhari’s campaign. He firmly asserted that the US actually sponsored Buhari’s campaign, noting
that the 2015 campaign manager for PMB is from US. “The administration of former President Goodluck Jonathan saw the war
against insurgency, and especially the contract with our private Army has a
veritable tool to regain popularity among the masses. “But the then incoming president, Muhammadu Buhari, was heavily supported by the US, and one of his first mission as President after May 2015, was to terminate their contract,” he said. Asked why he thinks the US will intervene to abort their operation which was
yielding success, Barlow, who is the author of “Composite Warfare: The Conduct
of Successful Ground Force Operations in Africa”, explained: “I am not saying
the US is a bad country. I also understand their foreign interest. But one
would have thought that with the threat Boko Haram posed to Nigeria’s
territorial integrity, they should be a priority for any country desirous of
helping Nigeria eliminate them.” He maintained that foreign forces have only prolonged, rather than end
violent conflicts in most African States. By PRNigeria