The absence of the counsel of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission’s (EFCC) stalled the trial of a senior lawyer, Rickey Tarfa (SAN), on Thursday,  who is accused of perverting justice. Tarfa is standing trial in an Igbosere High Court,  Lagos, on 26 counts bordering on offering monetary gratification to two judges of the Federal High Court – Justice Hyeladzira Nganjiwa and Justice Mohammed Yunusa. At the resumed trial, Tarfa’s counsel, Mr Jelili Owonikoko, announced his appearance and informed the court that counsel to EFCC was not yet in court. He said the counsel to the commission earlier called him and said he was stuck in the traffic, which made the court to wait for an hour. Owonikoko said that he was ready for continuation of trial as his second witness  was present in court. Justice Adedayo Akintoye, however, adjourned the case after an hour until March 26 for the continuation of trial. Tarfa was not able to attend court proceedings all through 2019 due to ill health. His counsel had applied to the court for an extension of time to allow his client recuperate before attending court  proceedings. The court, however, advised him after several adjournments to produce other witnesses to continue with his defence to avoid stalling the trial. Tarfa was arraigned by EFCC on March 9,  2016 and re-arraigned on Nov. 16, 2016,  on an amended charge. The anti-graft agency claimed that between June 27, 2012 and Jan.  8, 2016, Tarfa paid a total of N5.3 million in several tranches into Nganjiwa’s bank account. He was also accused of paying N800,000 in three tranches into Yunusa’s account between Feb. 9, 2015 and Nov. 30, 2015. The commission alleged that the payments were meant to compromise the judges. The lawyer was equally accused of age falsification. Tarfa, however,  pleaded not guilty to the charges and was granted bail on self-recognition. The commission has since closed its case, while Tarfa opened his defence after the court dismissed his no-case submission. (NAN)