Lagos State Government will not be
taking definitive action against illegal operations of commercial motorcycles
and tricycles on restricted routes across the State, it was learnt on Monday. The revelation followed a four-hour
Security Council meeting chaired by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and attended by
all commanders of security agencies in the State. Briefing State House reporters after
the meeting, Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr. Gbenga Omotoso,
said the Government’s delayed action against restriction of motorcycles and
tricycles was informed by the need to achieve a generally acceptable solution
to the menace. Omotoso disclosed that relevant parties
and stakeholders had reached out to the Government with suggestions and
representation that could be adopted to proffer a win-win solution on the
matter. The Security Council, the Commissioner
said, is currently considering the suggestions and recommendations submitted to
the Government before coming up with definite plans on the Okada menace. He said: “We have just concluded our
routine security meeting, during which issue of Okada and tricycles was discussed
exhaustively. For now, no major decision will be taken on the matter. There are
several factors for this development, but the main reason is to reckon with
various opinions expressed by stakeholders. “So many people have made
representations to the Government concerning commercial motorcycles and
tricycles, including human rights groups, unionists and traders. They came up
with many reasonable observations; all their views have been collated and are
being considered. “We feel it would not be good enough
for the Government to make final decision on the matter without considering the
opinions of the stakeholders. That would be against the spirit of democracy for
which the Sanwo-Olu administration stands.” Decisions to be taken on the matter,
the Commissioner said, will reflect the views of all stakeholders and wishes of
concerned residents. Omotoso said security of lives of Lagos
residents and safety of visitors remained paramount to the Government,
stressing that the Sanwo-Olu administration would not compromise in this
regard. According to the Commissioner, the
ongoing enforcement of the extant Traffic Laws and Okada restriction will go
on, pending the final decisions of the Security Council. He added that advocacy
was currently on-going to sensitise riders of Okada and tricycles on the need
to obey traffic laws. At the briefing, include the Secretary
to the State Government, Mrs. Folashade Jaji, Commissioner for Justice and
Attorney General, Mr. Moyo Onigbanjo, and Commissioner for Transport, Dr. Fredric
Oladehinde.