Police Commanders
who fail to show leadership competence run the risk of being removed from their
posts, Inspector General of Police, IGP Mohammed Adamu, mni warned on Tuesday . The IGP
issued this warning in his remarks at a conference PMF/SPU/CTU Commanders in Abuja. He said “I charge you to return to your Bases with
a new orientation and firm determination to demonstrate competent and firm
leadership that will not only sustain your profile as courageous and
professional Commanders, but as one that will never compromise discipline and
respect for the rights of the citizens. Doing otherwise shall, henceforth,
attract stern disciplinary actions against you, including possibility of
removing you as Commanders for lacking professional leadership competency.” The IGP reminded the Commanders that his charge was
in line with President Muhammadu Buhari’s warning to the Force recently. He reminded the police commander of  “the recent admonition by His Excellency,
Muhammadu Buhari, the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in his
speech at the recent commissioning ceremony of some operational assets of the
Nigeria Police that, ‘you must take cognizance of the fact that in the
discharge of your duties, you shall not only be judged by the number of crimes
you have busted nor the number of convictions you have secured, but by the
extent to which the process of achieving your statutory mandate conforms to
professional and legal standards’.” He noted that “Today’s meeting is essentially, directed
at reviewing our achievements and engaging Commanders of the Police Mobile
Force, Counterterrorism Units and the Special Protection Units of the Nigeria
Police towards discussing ways and means of strengthening their operational
capacities to deal with current internal security threats and position them to
prepare for evolving threats within the new year. “The tactical and operational Units of the Nigeria
Police Force were established as specially trained and equipped detachments with
capacity to undertake special operations aimed at deterring and mitigating the
threats of violent crimes, and terrorism as well as the provision of
specialized security and escort duties for high-risk individuals and corporate organizations.
The three detachments were established to complement each other toward
supporting the conventional police in addressing critical internal security challenges
and civil disorders beyond the capacity of conventional police detachments. “They are, therefore, critical components of the
broad internal security architecture of the Nigeria Police Force and they have
been strategic to the achievements we have so far recorded in relation to the
stabilization of the nation’s internal security space over the past one year of
my leadership. Having achieved this much, there is the need to re-evaluate our
strategies with a view to sustaining the gains we have so far recorded having
regards to the roles of the special operational arms of the Police. According to the IGP, “This conference is aimed at
achieving this purpose and hence, we shall in the course of our meeting
re-evaluate our strategies and engage the Commanders in relation to their
duties, operations, and challenges, among others as we deploy them to
strengthen current internal security operations. He used  the “opportunity to appreciate the sacrifices that
you, the Commanders, and your men have made in the discharge of your statutory
duties to the nation. Some have unfortunately paid the supreme price in the
line of duty, while some others are nursing injuries in responding to violent
crimes across the country. The gallantry of these crops of officers shall be
continually recognized and duly commended. He added, “As we strive to enhance your
orientation and strengthen your professional capacity in dealing with current
and emerging crimes, let me remind you that as commanders, you shall be held
accountable either directly or vicariously, not only for your actions or
inactions, but for the professional infractions of all the personnel under your
command. “Of late, there have been reports of incidents of
incivility to citizens, misuse of firearms, deployment of personnel on
unauthorized duties and mounting of illegal road blocks by personnel under your
watch all against extant directives of the leadership of the Nigeria Police
Force. These unprofessional and illegal conducts are most intolerable. Your
primary duty is the protection of the lives and property of citizens and strict
adherence to Force orders and directives in so doing. Indeed, the need to
perform your duties within the dictates of rule of law and best internal
standards is sacrosanct and should never be compromised under any circumstances
or guise.”