 The Government of
Oyo State said on Friday that it has launched an investigation into the
circumstances surrounding the illegal demolition of classrooms in two
state-owned Primary schools within Ibadan metropolis. Information had
reached the Government early on Thursday to the effect that some unknown
individuals in Egbeda and Ona-Ara Local Government Areas of the State illegally
entered the premises of two primary schools and demolished blocks of
classrooms. A statement
by the Chief Press Secretary to Governor Seyi Makinde, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, 
indicated that the Governor had promised to prosecute the perpetrators. The statement
indicated that some individuals had unlawfully entered the premises of the
Community Primary School, Ayepe, in Egbeda Local Government Area and Methodist
Primary School, Gangansi in Ona-Ara Local Government Area, where they
demolished blocks of classroom without authorization. The Government
described the act as illegal, untoward and totally condemnable, adding that it
would not sit down and watch saboteurs destroy public properties for whatever
reasons. According to the
statement, the individuals who destroyed the classrooms got no approval from
the State Universal Basic Education Board, which holds the schools in trust for
the Government and the people. “While the
State Government is desirous of working with good-spirited members of the
society in managing public infrastructure, the administration will not condone
lawlessness and failure to adhere to due process,” the statement read. The statement
added: “The Government frowns on the demolition of blocks of classrooms at the
Community Primary School, Ayepe and Methodist Primary School, Gangansi in
Egbeda and Ona-Ara Local Government Areas respectively by some hoodlums
purportedly on the order of a National Assembly member from the state. “The act, to say
the least, is untoward, illegal and totally condemnable. No one, no matter how
highly placed, is allowed to unlawfully enter a public school premises and
demolish buildings under whatever guise without approval from Government. “We see this as an
act of provocation and lawlessness and as a Government; we will not sit down
and watch some lawless individuals have their ways in sabotaging Government by
destroying school properties or embarking on renovations of public property
using lawless means simply for political showmanship. “Governor Seyi
Makinde has mandated the relevant security agencies to commence investigation
into the circumstances that led to the demolition of the classrooms in the two
aforementioned schools. “The Governor has
also given directives that the law enforcement should bring the perpetrators to
justice so as to serve as deterrents to other individuals who may want to
follow such path of lawlessness. “Governor Makinde
has said it times and again that his administration is open to working with
public-spirited individuals to bring about massive improvement in the
infrastructure in the education and other sectors in the State. But that
partnership must follow due process. “Any individual or
politician with the intention to collaborate in building infrastructure in Oyo
State schools should know that the schools are public properties under the
trust of the Government and they should approach the Government for appropriate
approvals. “Anything short of
this is lawlessness and as a Government that has sworn to defend the laws of
the land, the Government of Oyo State is ever ready to put every tendency
towards lawlessness under the check of the long arms of the law.”