AEDC has written to the Managing
Director of the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) requesting him to take urgent
steps for the repair of  damaged 132kV
cable. Newsdiaryonline learnt that the
letter was written on the heels of worries  about the  protracted delay in the repair of the damaged
132kV cable, conveying power from the Katampe 330/132kV to Central Area
132/33kV transmission station in Abuj. It was further learnt that the cable
in question is the gateway through which AEDC supplies electricity top range
customers located in the Central Business District and such highbrow areas like
Maitama, Wuse Zones 1 – 7,  Utako, parts of Garki and Life Camp as well as
Jabi and Kado Estate. AEDC, in lamenting that the damage
has lasted eight months with the repair yet to be effected said “this fault has
persisted since June, 2019 and not yet resolved. The Central Area is the hub of
Government and commercial activities in the Federal Capital Territory, and this
fault on your cable has subjected these areas to constant loadshedding. This is
as a result of line capacity, which has been reduced by half since June,
2019”. Of perhaps greater concern to AEDC,
the memo says, is the negative impact the continuous delay in the repair of the
cable is having on its revenue profile. “This fault” AEDC said in the memo “is
negatively affecting both our commercial and technical performance as our
revenue collection in these areas are not being optimized and customers are
being frustrated because of this constant load shedding necessitated by this
persistent cable fault”. AEDC concluded the memo by with a
prayer. “It is our fervent prayer that you direct your maintenance team to
urgently clear this fault because since its occurrence, our teeming customers
have been suffering untold hardship. Moreover, the negative political impact
and reputational damage continue to be on the rise as long as this cable fault
on your 132kV remain unresolved.” Some of the major customers affected
in the Central Area in Abuja include the Federal High Court, Central Mosque,
the Christian Ecumenical Centre, Federal Ministry of Finance Incorporated among
others.