An undergraduate at the University of PortHarcourt, Rivers State, Tombari Akata, has won the December 2019 edition of the Help the Hardworker Project of Princewill Trust Foundation, a press release by Prince Tonye Princewill Media Office said. Speaking while
presenting the cash price of N100,000 to the beneficiary at the school
premises, the founder and sponsor of the foundation, Prince Tonye Princewill
said the gesture would be his little monthly contribution of giving back to the
society while encouraging the hard workers in it. The Prince, who was
represented by Barr. Ken Saronwiyo a retired customary court judge and a Deputy
Governorship aspirant in the 2015 elections, said that the presentation is
testimony that the NGO will always live up to its own expectations and set
goals in order to better the lives of the citizenry. According to him, as an
organization that believes in helping responsible members of the society,
Princewills Trust will continue to maintain this important cause, pointing out
that the foundation is here to fulfill its objectives and promises for the
month of December 2019. He encouraged
hardworking people everywhere to develop an interest and compete as it is a way
of changing lives and putting smiles on the faces of people in the society. He
congratulated the winner for his efforts and enjoined him to spread the good
news to others as the foundation will continue to keep its promises. Also speaking, the
mother of the beneficiary, Mrs Anthonia Akata said that she was very happy with
the gesture as she did not expect it was real, even when her son told her about
the event, adding that she is now convinced that the activities of Princewill
Trust changes lives. She prayed God to bless them in all their endeavours and
to do even more to reach many more people. Responding, the
beneficiary and winner of the December 2019 Help The Hardworker Project”,
Mr Tombari Victor Akata expressed delight with the foundation as it is an
opportunity for one to engage even after classes as entrepreneur and thanked
all those who voted for him to emerge the winner. He called on all those
who were not so lucky and others to keep trying as the programme is clearly
real and could boost business prospects in addition to a certificate after
graduation. This is the third person
who is winning the 100,000 Naira cash prize. Previous winners were a shoe maker
and a bicycle repair man. As the January edition goes into full swing, who will
emerge as the first winner of 2020 remains to be seen. What is clear is that
hard work is not only now fashionable in Rivers state, it has become
profitable.