 President Muhammadu Buhari will depart Abuja Friday for London to participate in the inaugural UK-Africa Investment Summit holding on Monday, January 20, 2020, Presidential Spokesman, Femi Adesina revealed Thursday. Hosted
by the British Prime Minister, Boris Johnson, the event, according to the
organisers, is expected to bring together African leaders, international
business chief executives and heads of international organisations “to create
new partnerships that will deliver more investments and jobs” to the benefit of
people and businesses in African countries and the United Kingdom. Apart
from highlighting new perspectives on UK-Africa Partnership for Prosperity,
issues of Sustainable Finance and Infrastructure; Trade and Investment; Future
African Growth Sectors and Clean Energy and Climate, are expected to dominate
presentations and discussions during the Summit. With
the expected take-off of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) in
mid-2020, the London investment summit will provide Nigeria with the
opportunity to project itself as a leading investment destination for new
industries. In
addition, the summit will deepen Nigeria-United Kingdom investment ties
post-Brexit given that Africa currently represents just two per cent of British
trade activity, with Nigeria accounting for only 10 per cent of that total. The
Nigerian delegation to the investment meeting will further showcase what the
Federal Government has done through policies and legislations to improve the
investment and business climate in the country. While
in the United Kingdom, President Buhari will hold a meeting with the Head of
the Commonwealth, Prince Charles in Glasgow, Scotland. The President and his delegation
will also have bilateral meetings with Prime Minister Johnson as well as heads
of multilateral organisations. President
Buhari will be accompanied to the Summit by Governors Yahaya Bello, Muhammad
Inuwa Yahaya and Okezie Ikpeazu of Kogi, Gombe and Abia States respectively. Also on the presidential entourage
are the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama; Minister of Industry,
Trade and Investment, Otunba Niyi Adebayo; the Minister of Finance, Budget and
National Planning, Zainab Ahmed; the National Security Adviser (NSA), Maj-Gen.
Babagana Monguno (retd); and the Director General, National Intelligence Agency
(NIA), Ambassador Ahmed Rufai Abubakar . President
Buhari is expected back in Abuja next Thursday, the statement said