The Centre for Information Technology and Development (
CITAD),has appealed to traditional rulers in the country to sensitise their
people on the dangers of using social media to spread hate speech.
Mr Hamza Ibrahim, CITAD Coordinator, Countering Hate Speech Project, made the
call while addressing a news conference in Kano on Tuesday.
He said the call became necessary following increasing number of Nigerians on
social media.
NAN reports that CITAD is implementing Countering Hate Speech project in
Nigeria with support from the National Democratic Institute (NDI).
The project is tracking and countering hate speech and online violence against
women with a view to raising awareness as well as advocating for addressing the
consequences of the phenomena.
Ibrahim said there was urgent need for traditional rulers to lead the crusade
against hate speech in order to promote tolerance among ethnic groups in the
country.
“We also want to reiterate our plea to administrators of pages and groups on
Face book to disallow any hateful, divisive or inciting piece,
“We enjoin users on both Face book and Twitter to make use of harmful content
reporting means to alert the platform on any harmful information they come
across.
“We call on social media influencers on both Twitter and Face book to strongly
discourage and condemn hate speech in order to promote peace and unity in our
country,” he said.
Ibrahim noted that between Dec. 1, 2019 and Dec. 31, 2019, CITAD Hate Speech
Monitoring Platform documented 205 hate speech instances tracked mainly from
social media platforms.
“Unlike in November 2019, the volume of hate speech instances dropped because
we tracked 387 instances of hate speech while the volume in December 2019 stood
at 205.
“Though the number has dropped, there has been rise and fall in various
categories of the speeches as we have consistently noticed ethnic tension
through comments and remarks of Nigerians on social media,” he said.
According to him, a country as diverse as Nigeria should not underestimate the
power of tolerance decay and ought to therefore, put measures in place to
ensure sustainable mutual coexistence, respect, unity and love for one another
no matter the differences in tribe, religion, region or language. (NAN)