The Anti-Corruption Network, ACoNet in Rivers state has  declared its  “unflinching support” to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission EFCC, as it takes the bold step to vacate an Obnoxious Perpetual injunction wedging graft investigations, subsisting in Rivers state. Vivian
Bellonwu, Head, National Advocacy in  Abuja
made the anticorruption network’s position known in a statement  sent to Newsdiaryonline
on Monday. The statement recalled that
the acting Chairman of the EFCC Mr. Ibrahim Magu, in a recent visit to Port
Harcourt, Rivers State, declared  that it
is the resolve of the anti-graft body to vacate the repugnant injunction to
pave way for investigations into the management cum use of finances of Rivers
state government by an elected official of successive administrations in the
State. ACoNet further noted that the
rivers state government had during the tenure of a former State Governor, Dr.
Peter Odili in 2008 sought and obtained a bizarre  perpetual injunction
from a federal High court restraining the EFCC and other anti-graft agencies
from investigating the activities of officials of the state. According
to Bellonwu, “this was clearly to
shield him and officials that worked with him at the time from being made to
account in any manner whatsoever, for their service to the state, in line with
the very basic principles of democracy. “This obnoxious injunction
has since been latched unto by successive administration after the Odili’s and
in this guise, supposedly elected officials have had a field day riding
roughshod over the people in the State and expending the State’s resources at
their whims, caprices and to their glee to date. The statement added, “The
Anti-Corruption Network is therefore pleased with the latest gesture of the
EFCC to vacate this terrible injunction and look into the books and management
of the resources of the state in line with its constitutional mandate. “This is the right thing to
do. It is pertinent to note that the Anti-Corruption Network, in Rovers state,
ACONet, has been at the forefront of campaigns and engagements with the EFCC
and other relevant institutions, to abrogate the obnoxious injunction in order
to pave a way for accountability by public officials to the people of the
State. By this development, ACoNet is glad that these campaign and advocacy
efforts are beginning to yield positive outcomes. The Anti-Corruption Network
also expressed  its disappointment
 with the disposition of the Rivers state government to the pronouncement
of the acting boss of the EFCC.It also condemned “in strong terms” the
statement credited to the Commissioner for Information in Rivers state, to the
effect that Anti-Graft body cannot investigate or prosecute any official of the
state found wanting.ACoNet urged the anti-graft body to discountenance such
antics by the officials of the state as they are diversionary and replete with
motives aimed at frustrating the well-thought-out plans of the anti-corruption body
which are long overdue. ACONet, further  pledged its support to the EFCC as it works to
vacate the injunction and usher in a season of probity and accountability in
public expenditure in River state. It  also
in same vein, strongly urged the EFCC to go beyond merely declaring its intent
and ensure that appropriate action or actions are taken to actualize this step.
The Network said it  will closely monitor
progress made in this regard. ACONet is a coalition made
up of active civil society organizations that work to promote fiscal
responsibility, transparency and pubic finance accountability. The Anti-Corruption Network
is a coalition of anti-corruption advocates who see the need to work with other
segments of the society to address the issues of corruption in their states.
They work to strengthen citizens’ actions against corruption.