A petition to the Economic and
Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) against the Director of Administration of
the Nigeria Intelligence Agency (NIA), Alhaji Ismail Yusuf, may have been
authored by a faceless individual, just as it has been found to be frivolous
and written with intent to cause mischief, investigations have revealed.  It
was discovered that the petitioner’s claim to being a former staffer of the NIA
is false. It was discovered that the allegations contained therein were not only frivolous but unsubstantiated and pointer to sinister motives. For instance, In the document, the NIA
Director was alleged to have claimed to hail from Seyawa tribe, Bauchi state
instead of Kogi as his home state.Investigations however, revealed that the
Director actually hails from Kogi state and has never claimed any other state
in the course of his 32 years of service with the Agency.  A source
knowledgeable about the matter told our Correspondent that Yusuf’s entire personal
history, including his state of origin is well known in the NIA and has never
been in doubt. It was learnt that the Director of
Administration joined the service of the Agency as an indigene of Benue state
until the section of the state he hails from was carved out to form the present
day Kogi state in 1991. Similarly, contrary to the claim that
the Director may have corruptly enriched himself and built a hotel in Abuja,
investigations showed that in the course of his 32 years’ career, the
Director served abroad at different times for cumulative period of 12 years.
The property, referred to in the anonymous petition, which is actually, a
bungalow, was indeed a personal residence of the Director and had served as the
family house which was later converted to commercial use when it was unoccupied
while he was on foreign posting with his family. “The family owns a small business,
which includes a bakery and a guest house operated by members of the family.
The Director is not directly involved in these commercial concerns” a source
familiar with the situation told our correspondent. Furthermore, even, the allegation that
the Director General of the NIA was aware of the “hotel” purportedly owned by
his staff, and had visited it was also found to be false. It was also learnt that the Bureau de
Change alleged to be owned by the NIA Director does not exist.  No such
business was found to be associated with the Director or the guest house being
run by members of his family. That the fake petitioner did not mention the name
of the Bureau de Change and where it operates in his petition was proof that
his allegation was false, our Correspondent found out. Also, the petitioner did not state his
actual physical address, neither did he include his real telephone or  
email contacts as required by relevant Agencies in petitions of this nature.
This obvious red flag led to more doubts about the petitioner’s true identity
and a pointer to malicious intent,our investigation also revealed. “The so called petition is the
handiwork of mischief makers, whose motive is not clear, but certainly
obnoxious.   In essence, the allegations are baseless and should be
disregarded in its entirety,” the source maintained.