Since assuming office, Malam Nasir
El Rufai,  the Executive Governor of Kaduna state, has brought creativity
and innovation into governance.  At various times, he has pioneered so
many projects and policies, so much that other state governments have come to understudy
his administration. Last December, Borno state government had sent a 32-man
delegation to study El Rufai’s model of participatory governance. The visit,
according to reports, was facilitated the Mercy Corps Nigeria and the aim is to
apply Kaduna state experience in tackling poverty and building a secure,
productive and just communities in Borno state. Right now, the Mercy Corps is
running a peace programme and conflict management and stabilisation in 20
communities in Borno state. On January 8, Kaduna State
Scholarship  and Loans Board unfolded what promises to  decongest
prisons and boost the profile of young lawyers. Surprisingly, this unique art
of governance didn’t make the news because the mainstream news media always
feast on the negative. In plain words , bad news is good news to them and they
feed the audience with it. In summary, the Kaduna State
Scholarship and Loans Board, under this scheme, is out to make social justice
accessible to all its citizens. To this end, the board is test-running a
programme called ‘’Free an inmate’’ and it explained how  it intends to do
it on its facebook page. According to the post, the scheme will give awaiting
trial inmates access to qualified lawyers at no cost to them. In this regard,
the board is inviting qualified ‘’law graduates who gain admission into the Law
School, to apply online for sponsorship. They will submit an essay to be scored
online. Candidates who pass the essay will have sponsorship for tuition fees
and upkeep for a year up to N400,000 while in the Law School.’’  When they
graduate, the beneficiaries  will serve in the ‘’Free an inmate scheme’’,
where they take up one case and see to its conclusion over a period of one
year, which is the maximum duration of the scheme. However, any case that
exceeds 12 calendar months shall be reviewed by the board, the post revealed. Significantly, Governor El Rufai has
always been passionate about fast tracking the conclusion of cases. In
2018,  he  had asked the then acting Chief Judge, Justice Muhammadu
Lawal  Bello, to recruit more judicial officers. Earlier,  the
government has already granted approval to hire 40 magistrates, in addition to
the  70  lawyers that were supposed to be recruited into the Ministry
of Justice. The aim of these recruitments is  to ease the judicial
process, reduce the delays in course of litigation and to enhance speedy
resolution of cases. Likewise,  former the 
Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, the late  Hajiya Umma
Aliyu-Hikima  inaugurated the state’s Judicial Monitoring Committee on the
Administration of the Criminal Justice Law (ACJL), in an effort to reform the
entire judiciary.  The 13-member committee, which was  headed by
Justice Bello, also has representatives of the police, the Nigerian Prisons
Service, the Department of State Services (DSS), the Nigerian Bar Association
(NBA), Legal Aid Council of Nigeria and human rights activists, as members. Its
mandate was to ensure the prevention of crime and promotion of peace and security.
At the inauguration  ceremony,  the Attorney General had urged
members to come up with modalities that would quicken the dispensation of
justice and prisons decongestion across the state. Significantly, this is just
what the Scholarship and Loans Board is trying to do with its ‘’Free an inmate
Scheme.’’. In the past, before the coming of
the  Administration of Criminal Justice law,  the interests of
accused persons  were  also poorly regarded. Also, 
 previous laws had significant provisions that discriminated against the
rights of women and the poor. However, with  the emergence of
Administration of Criminal Justice Law, the abuse of unlawful arrests by 
security operatives  without  a valid  arrest warrant is over.
In fact, a suspect shall not be arrested unless he is first informed of the
reason for the arrest. In addition, the security officer arresting the suspect
is also under the obligation to inform him  of his  rights to remain
silent or avoid answering any questions or signing any documents until he
has  consulted a lawyer. Similarly, the detaining authority also has a
legal obligation to inform relatives about the suspect’s arrest. Under the new law,  suspects’
relatives or friends can not be arrested where the said  suspects
are   at large. Specifically section 7  provides that “a person
shall not be arrested in place of a suspect.”  Also, the law also
prohibits the arrest of persons for contract-related offences. Specifically,
section 8 , sub section 2 of the act provides that “a person shall not be
arrested merely on a civil wrong or breach of contract”. Significantly, Governor Nasir El
Rufai and indeed the Kaduna state House of Assembly should be commended for
domesticating the Administration of Criminal Justice Act and instituting a compliance
committee. In addition, the various recruitments into the Ministry of Justice
have sped up litigation. Likewise, the ‘’Free an inmate Scheme’’ is another
creative way of decongesting the prisons, another ‘’First’’ from Governor El
Rufai. Istifanus is   a Special
Assistant on Media and Communication in Kaduna State Government