REMARKS BY COMRADE ISSA AREMU, mni, NEC MEMBER, NIGERIA
LABOUR CONGRESS (NLC) AND VICE PRESIDENT, INDUSTRIALL GLOBAL UNION ON THE
OCCASION OF HIS 59TH BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION ON SATURDAY JANUARY 11,
2020, ILORIN, KWARA STATE DEDICATION My 59th birthday is
dedicated to three important personalities in sports and sports development in
Nigeria. First His Royal Highness (HRH), OBA ABDULRAZAQ AFOLABI IYIOLASEMI, Olojoku
of Ojoku. Second is the late Obalowu Keke, and thirdly, Asisat Oshoala
third time winner of African Women’s Footballer of the Year award. Olojoku is
the patron of Kwara state Cyclists Association and consistent supporter of my
annual birthday cycling/fitness activity. Obalowu was the former staff of Kwara State
Sports Ministry. He was a passionate cyclist. He died on duty as a result of a
ghastly auto accident three years ago, while on a trip to buy bicycles for a
cycling competition. May his soul Rest in Peace. Next year we are launching an
annual cycling competition in his memory. The
third time victory of Nigeria national team star Asisat Oshoala shows that we
must invest on the education and development of girl child as much as we do so
for boys in line with Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). CURRENT
ISSUES GRADUALIST APPROACH TO REFORM Nigerian governments
at all levels must adopt consensual gradualist approach to policy reforms
instead of the current shock therapy  approach which tend to create more
problems than providing solutions for good governance. Nigeria should
adopt gradualist approach to development instead of the current shock
therapy immediate effect approach that alienates the Nigerian people. The recent controversies that
trailed the attempt by Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) 
to increase end-user tariffs for    electricity,  application of
Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS)  in the
Universities, proposed reintroduction of toll gates by Ministry of works and
the insistence of  Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) that
candidates for the forth-coming 2020 must acquire National Identification
Number (NIN) or forfeit their chance of sitting for the examination, are
examples of shock therapy approaches to reforms. HAIL JAMB I hail
the decision of the Registrar of the Joint Admissions and Matriculation
Board (JAMB), Prof. Ishaq Oloyede on Saturday, to suspend the use of the
National Identity Number (NIN), for the 2020 Unified Tertiary Matriculation
Examination (UTME). Other agencies should demonstrate similar sensitivity to
the plight of stakeholders in policy formulation and policy implementation. The
lesson from JAMB/NIN saga is that Nigeria must sequence reforms with time lines
for stakeholders to appreciate rationale for policies and even make their
inputs known. Public Policies should be for Stakeholders by Stakeholders with
genuine partnership as envisaged by Sustainable Development Goals of
2030. RETHINK TOLL
GATES To
this  extent,  the Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola
must rethink the return of toll plazas on federal roads, until there is an
appropriate explanations why the tolls were first dismantled by the previous
governments and when the roads would be motorable for users through
reconstruction and repairs. NO TO NEW TARIFF In the
same vain NERC must address the concerns of electricity users in terms of poor
energy service delivery instead of addictive increases in tariffs without
complementary sustainable power supply. The obsession of NERC with
macroeconomic parameters and costs that would make case for operators must be
tempered with the interests of poor customers  and national development.
The truth is lack of sustainable electricity is under-developing Nigeria. NERC
must address the concerns of consumers not just the interests of Electricity
Distribution Companies (DisCos) alone. Operation Amotekun:
NEED FOR CAUTION On
Thursday, January 9, 2020, Governors of Nigeria’s six southwest States of Ogun,
Osun, Oyo, Ekiti, Ondo and Lagos, launched the western Nigeria security network
called ‘Operation Amotekun’ in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. Governors Seyi
Makinde of Oyo, Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti and Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo were
present at the flag-off while Governors Gboyega Oyetola of Osun, Babajide
Sanwo-Olu of Lagos and Dapo Abiodun of Ogun cited poor weather conditions as
reason for their absence. The fear is that this new initiative about security
at sub-national level may be out of fear than reasoned and well thought out
security strategy. For one security like many critical issues like capital and
labour controls are on the exclusive list of the constitution. The hope is that
Operation Amotekun is not another state police without constitutional
consideration and legitimacy in a Federation. Who can train and arm youths for
security in Federation? Do they have power of intelligence gathering, arrest
and prosecution? How does the Operation Amotekun relate with the existing
Nigeria Police Force? Who pays and what are they paid. My suggestion is that both the Federal and state governments
should have preventive approach to issue of security. There is a link between
poverty, unemployment and rising crimes. It’s time state governments reinvented
industries and create decent sustainable jobs instead of unnecessarily and
uncritically arming the youths in the name of security. All states should key
to the vision of President Buhari in creating 100 million jobs in 10 years. A
million Federal and state police men will be overwhelmed by 80 million
unemployed while 80 million fully employed youths would minimize crimes and
make the jobs of police easier in maintaining security.