Publisher: Cassava Republic, 2019, Abuja & London By Jibrin Ibrahim I enjoyed reading Jumoke Verissimo’s debut novel – “A Small Silence” and
I am surprised with myself. I should not have enjoyed it, but I did. The author
sets out to profile what could be the motivations and thought processes of a
radical professor deeply engaged in the struggle against militarism and the repressive
Nigerian State of the 1990s. My readers should allow me the small arrogance of
being suspicious about non-radicals psycho-analysing our lives of radicalism,
(having been of the same tradition myself), because obviously, and we have a
consensus on this, the others can never understand what we tried to do. Of
course, we ourselves have never really told our story so they have no empirical
framework to cast our narrative(s). When I grow up, I will learn the art of
creative writing and attempt to provide a “correct” political narrative of
Nigerian radicalism but that’s for another day. The second reason I thought I would not enjoy the novel is that the
story is formatted in darkness, which I dislike. It is not just the complete darkness
the broken comrade professor decided to live in after his release following ten
years of incarceration and torture. It is also the darkness of the two
protagonists talking to each other in a dark room and the introspection of each
trying to read the sign posts of the other who they can barely see. Repeatedly,
the reader is invited to reflect on the limitations of communication without
visual clues. It was also the darkness of most of the other characters in the
novel; their broken lives, the very high levels of domestic violence, State
violence including the wicked demolition of the Maroko slum without notice, the
brutality of prison incarceration and the struggle to exist amidst intense
poverty. How can these dark spaces be the setting for exploring the life of an activist
and human rights crusader who is a change agent seeking to destroy military
authoritarianism and replace it with the light and progress associated with
democracy? I pose this question because the other side of the dialectic, the
opulent, degenerate life of the ruling class based on looting the national
wealth and creating the material basis for the poverty of the suffering masses
is not explored. I had to suffer reading through accounts of how the toiling
masses suffered without being consoled by insults hurled at the degenerate
ruling classes who are the source of the suffering. I had listened to the book chat with the author at the Ake 2019 Book Festival
in Lagos where she explained that her motivation for writing the novel was that
everybody around her loves and respects the radical but no one appears to like
the idea of being like their heroes – WHY, she asked? In the novel itself, she
hints at all the other comrades of prof who had committed class suicide and
joined the regime – remember General Babangida’s incorporation of tons of
professors in his regime. “A Small Silence” is compelling reading because there is no attempt to
tell the political story of radicalism – that would have failed woefully. It’s
a story, or rather, many stories about the human condition in the 1990s and
2000s in Nigeria and how peoples’ minds were moulded, the emotions they went
through, their responses and the survival of the fittest. If there is pedagogy
in the novel, it’s presenting the three alternatives available to the people –
survival, death and madness. The difficulty is that it is not about picking one
of them but about how two or three of them always appear to combine in each
character. The main character is a student at Lagos State University called Desire,
originally named UNDESIRABLE by her father but renamed by a loving mother. Her
story is a ray of light about the possibility of survival and progress in spite
of a background of deep poverty and structural violence. From the beginning,
she loved books and learning and was ready to do anything to have access to the
source of knowledge and maybe different ways of painting emotions available in
books. The emotional element is powerful and the story is told in relation to
her need, or is it obsession, to understand the life and struggle of Prof
although it is the responsibility of the reader to work out their own
understanding of the content of the said emotion. The story telling always
makes you surprised by what Desire thinks and does and at so many instances you
cannot keep the book down as you wonder what her next shocking move would
be. Jumoke Verissimo is a poet and her writing skills makes reading the
novel both easy and enjoyable. As our writing standards collapse in Nigeria,
its gratifying to see young Nigerians who can write great prose. As the author
is a poet, the prose is often written in verse providing quality communication
and reflection. It’s a way of recalling the passage from Molière’s “Le
Bourgeois Gentilhomme” who made the passage from prose to verse without
realising it, or is it the other way around. The novel is also the story of the lived lives of Lagosians, the hustle
and bustle of the city. The buses and the markets, the dirty slums, the pot
holes, the gutters and the mosquitoes as well as the challenge of living in a
city that never sleeps. Not to forget the churches and the mosques and the
noise that reaches the highest decibels imaginable. Clearly, the author knows
her city very well. There is deep sociological knowledge expressed in the novel – Nigerian
social life is about broken families which have become sites where love
transforms to deep hatred with ease. It’s difficult to find a “normal” family
in the novel and the author invites us to look around ourselves and observe the
type of agency associated with broken family life. What has happened to the
normal family? Alternatively, what does normality mean in our society today? At
the end, the reader is pushed to ask the question if we are not normal, are we
all mad? Is it possible for us to retain our sanity amidst the life of trauma,
betrayal, violence, broken families and hatred that we live? How can we be sane
when almost all stories of tenderness and love end up becoming narratives of
hate? Yes, maybe we are all mad. Alternatively, maybe we are all just
Nigerians. Take your pick after reading the book, which I recommend highly.