By Haruna
Salami Dr. Mustapha Bintube, renowned
researcher and contemporary criminologist in Nigeria, founder of Classical
Social Tripodal Insurgency Model, STIM, staff of the National Assembly, Senate
Directorate of Journals, Fellow European Centre for Research Training and
Development, ERCTD, United Kingdom says he has discovered a social Atomic PEN Structural Theory
for Change. According to Dr. Bintube, the theory was discovered by him
for the first time in Sociology to explain social behavioural change to improve
on theory construction in the general field of social sciences. The theory is
deductive of the Dalton Atomic theory balancing, natural, physical and human, social
phenomenon, a sociological handshake with Chemistry. Dr. Bintube deductively reverses
the theory to explain social change. This discovery is phenomenal and a new
vista in the field of Sociology in particular and the social sciences in
general. “The social Atomic PEN structural theory of social change
assumes that everything has its original form, shape, size and structure to
define its existence in the human society. The way things appear to us,
ab-initio is not their original dispositions (structures), but their second,
third or fourth level layer stage of progressive development. All defends on
invariable succession of their progressive stages, enabled by the cardinal
principles of the social Atomic PEN structural synthesis.  For instance, in sociology, we have a number
of theories to explain social change and its fundamental principles. Perhaps,
the first level stage of change, associated with Atomic PEN structure which
ought to have been explored but, until Dr. Bintube’s discovery was projected to
social and intellectual community for scientific proof and falsification. He has conducted an
extensive cutting edged research of applying deductive approach leading to a
discovery of Social Atomic PEN Structural theory of change for practice in the
field of social sciences. He theorized that natural, physical phenomenon can
explain human social phenomenon, with potency to provide change and its
incisive lines of philosophical thoughts in theorizing is summarised as follows: “The Sociological theory of Atomic PEN
Structural Change was constructed on the very foundation of Karl Popper’s
deduction approach of social scientific theorizing. The theory has been tested
and proved to be sociologically stable and ontologically rooted for the
explanation of human behaviour in the society through Atomic PEN Structural
analysis. The framework has provided support for sufficient contemporary
examples of Atomic PEN structures with the strength of (+- and n) to determine
change and to indicate possible direction of individual behaviour in the
society and its causal effects to other social Atomic PEN structural
fundamentals”. Bintube’s social theory of Atomic PEN
Structural change “provides description of both ‘social-visibility’ and to some
larger extent, ‘social invisibility and social indivisibility Atomic structures
and their interpretations, explanations and descriptions are possible in their
inverse form through social interactions among members of a society as well as
their relation to objects within the ecosystem. “Luke (1973) also, quoted Durkheim, while saying that
there are forces which objectified and projected things into another thing.
Similarly, he could not also bring to our sociological notice the social energy
of Atomic PEN structure of the (+-n) as the forces which change human society
from one form to another and from time to time. Durkheim has done classical
work as evolutionist and as structuralist who believes in the logical
positivism. However, he  did not as well  provide the strength (+-n) which he  should 
have ideally told us the periodic change in direction of mechanical to
organic society but ended up by giving it’s caricature (distinguishing
features)  as the society changes from
simple to more complex one. “Again, he also failed to tell us the basic and
elementary constituents of the previous form of the pole on which mechanical
solidarity stand, but he characterizes what he discovered to be known as
mechanical society and what actually projected that society to see the light of
the day and its sociological fundamentals to provide the strength to determine
the direction of change as (+-n) as social energy which moves mechanical
society to an organic solidarity was not provided by Durkheim until the Atomic
PEN structural theory of change provided it. And as its elementary forms and
basic constituents which differentiate the end to end classification.  After all, his theory is also limited to the
explanation of change associated with an end to end theoretical description.
Like Durkheim,  “Montesquieu, also
called what moves the society as vis a tergo, (as a force which moves the
society forward); but couldn’t tag sociological definition and classification
as  the Atomic PEN structural social
energy  is the force  which ignites change and it is   inherently built  in any social relationship in the society as
it forms and combines the social capital of 
(P+,E-, and N)  and  has the capacity of collective
representations of the Atomic PEN structure 
as a social phenomenon to form the basic and the most primary form of
Atomic PEN structural change  and its
constituent  was discovered by the
sociological theory of Atomic PEN structure for change to be synonymous to what
Montesquieu referred to as (the vis- a-tergo). “Atomic PEN structure is the most fundamental secret
behind the elementary forms of dynamic density of the society and it is the
same Atomic PEN social energy which enables Comteam Theoleological stage to
move to Metaphysical and later provides pathways to the discovery of the
Positive (scientific stage). All of these stages are built on the very
foundation of the Atomic PEN structural social 
energy which are inherently built on all structural changes that take
place in the society and it is everywhere and exist at all times.  It also serves as the social coherence as
well as the social fibre to enable elements of the society to form and combine
for social mobility to suggest any form of change in the society. Bintube’s theory of social Atomic PEN structural change
stands to explain the “changing nature of social behaviour to inform change in
some similar manner to that of an atom; a natural phenomenon. This is the dream
of the logical positivist school and what was envisaged by August Comte, the
father of logical positivistism. The logical positivist school or the Comtean
as it may be called, has clamoured for building a social system in theorizing,
utilizing such incisive line of thoughts (‘thinking’ and ‘reasoning’) to
establish causal relations among variables to discover newer theories in sociology
to solve complex human social  problems
in the society”. Hence, the discovery of the Social Atomic PEN structure theory
of change by Dr. M. Bintube.  The  postulation of the theory is an attempt to
serve as  bridge builder to facilitate
scientific maturity of social science to attain 
that of the natural science as advocated by the logical positivist such
as August Comte, Karl Popper, Emile Durkheim and John Rex who had pointed out
this claim in his book “the key problems of Sociological theory” about
the essence of  discoveries in both
social and natural-physical sciences to enhance social-scientific
investigations and sociological credentials which August Comte dreamt for
sociology  and now left in our hands and
sociology  as a discipline  in general 
to take the  centre stage and make
an  attempt like this one.  Consequent upon that, Robert K. Merton had
achieved by theorizing on the second middle range theory. “Luke (1973) quoted Durkheim in his thesis on “the
sociology of knowledge” as he advocated the need for classification such
as providing categories of unknown phenomenon (x) in the social science into
its very composition with causal effects on other structures to effect further
change of the society as a result of social interactions which enable them to
construct their own society by themselves to ensure positive change as
consequential effects. “August Comte, though, inductivist who was more or less
not attractive to the logical process of deduction compared to Karl Popper’s
process of deduction has reasoned on the concept of classification of variable
contents in a socially coherent theory of Atomic PEN structural change such as
social Protoneous (P+), social Electroneous (E-) and the social Neutroneous (N)
as the necessary forces which drive sociological priorities for change in
behaviour.  Classification here
represents the elementary form of the theory of social Atomic PEN structural
change to project human society or any social phenomenon from its simpler form
into another form characterised by complexity. Durkheim has also consistently acknowledged the fact
that, “human society has its very first source” but he could not explain
further to the level of its social and objective constituents, including the
dynamic density of how Atomic PEN structure can transform the human society,
but he strongly maintained that “society has its very first
source”.  We have attempted to
discover the very first source of the society by employing deductive approach
which subsequently provides a pedestal for theorizing on the sociological
theory of Atomic PEN structural change. Corollary to the above,   Durkheim 
has also acknowledged that there are collective forces which move the society
to inform change, but he did not provide categories of their social disposition
such as  social (P+,E- and N) which
August Comte has also considered as the basic thing a social scientist should
do while postulating a sociological theory. “August Comte based his sociological thesis on ‘Positive
science of empiricist traditions drawn from a posteriori understanding of the
society from experience and sense perception’. Durkheim called it social facts,
(as things which exist independent of an actor’s views and his interpretations
of social world). Charles Darwin drew his argument from
‘evolutionism-bilogizing the human society’. Herbert Spencer had done classical
work on ‘Social Contract, homogeneity and heterogeneity’. However, none of
these philosophers was quick to notice or particular about the basic
constituents and  elementary form of the
P+, E- and the N components of the Atomic PEN structural social energy which
are inherently built into and can provide adequate descriptions of  what Montesquieu called  “vis a tergo” in Montesquieu’s
connotations, especially in relation to its structure, shape, uniformity,
constituent elements or variable content, composition and strength to describe
any social phenomenon in the society. Until the sociological theory of Atomic
PEN structural change was discovered through deduction, there was no
explanation to the effect of its deduction of being an objective reality of the
social Atomic PEN structural theory of change. “Durkheim has strong conviction of the fact that all
societies and hitherto existed ones have their very first source. But he did
not provide further explanation on their composition and directions for change
and why. “The social theory of Atomic PEN structural change has
been able to give sufficient description of that first source by providing its
constituent components as the social protoneous P+, social electroneous E-  and the social Neutroneous N as the
elementary form of anything that is said to have existed and its basic
constituents of  social energy of
determining its directions as (+- and n) which drive the society  forward at the very beginning as it is
the  first source  to enable evolution from one stage to
another. Now, the compelling questions are these: What are these conflicting
forces which Montesquieu called, vis a tergo? What push the society to
gradually emerge from its previous form?  
What is the description of that previous form? “Albeit, Montesquieu was also apt to the point to notice
that society emerge from its previous form and that is reminiscent of the
Atomic PEN structural level synthesis to inform further level change. For
instance, the Germeinscheft to form a society as we have given example on
students behaviour of asking questions as; “any NEWS on results? No NEWS. No
news because, the results are undergoing an Atomic PEN structural synthesis  of invisibility, until it  transforms 
to the next level of progression by the dynamic density and
interplay  of  the social P, E  and N to cause further change  to the level of students notice  via the notice board. “Again, when  the
Atomic PEN structures are  collectively
represented in the form of social webs, the social Atomic PEN energy will cause
it to initiate transition which enables what is referred to as “social
nobility’  to suggest further change  and at that stage, the Atomic PEN structure
of social protoneous (+), social electroneous (-) and the N catalytic values
will appear in their complex and 
heterogeneous outlook with different forms which resemble, for instance,
the mechanical society characterized as 
simple,  later  society as its previous form and its
constituent, while in comparison to the former organic society that is more
complex and heterogeneous stage of change and that transition was enable by
Atomic PEN structural social energy. The former would have more complex
characteristics  which  are 
diversified  in their newer Atomic
PEN structural breeds as  elements  for 
the definition  of the system (society)
due to  the hetrogeneous Atomic web of
coiling  themselves to explain  the later which formed and combined. “The sociological belief which Herbert Spencer
acknowledges as society is not static but rather dynamic. The Atomic PEN  structural webs  which according to Montesquieu description is
‘meaning’ (conflicting forces and/or vis a tergo)  which are formed  and further coil to one another to  enable 
social dynamic situations to come into play and  possibly cause further change in the society. Some changes are positive while others are negative, and
all of these happen because the Atomic PEN structure carries (+-) values of
social protoneous and social electrneous and the N elements to calibrate and
recalibrate the society to context and social equilibrium to define change and
its direction as it plays catalytic role of a stabilizer for calibration and
recalibration of the social energies to bring about structural change in the
society. In that case, the Atomic PEN structure is the vehicle which drives the
society forward and it can be described as the force which enables change in
the society and institutions for social progress of man and his society, in
some instances. “To have an all encompassing understanding of structural
change, individual members of the society are to identify not only the PEN structures,  but should also establish the strength of
the  (+-) 
to enable  the direction of the  society to 
discover facts about any existing social 
phenomenon in it. “We hear of mechanical and organic society and/solidarity
as well as the Gemeinscheft and Gaselscheft, but we never heard of their
possible directions in terms of their strength. This is a huge sociological
Lacuna (gap) in structural change for  
the development of the society and measuring the strength as (-+n)
values until the theory of Atomic PEN structural change emerged from the
weaknesses of the structural functionalist perspective. “Theory of social Atomic PEN structural change presents
three components to define any progressive stage in the history of man and they
are represented by the social (P+), the social (E-) and the social (N). These
structural components rest on their very orbit and held together by social
nucleus to define the characteristics of social actions and negative situation
to inform further change within a social context. It is the most primary level
change to allow for mechanical changes to take place and they have a
disposition of being independent with the capacity of interdependence because
they can neither be created nor destroyed but contain in them the capacity for
+ or – structural change to affect the society just like the Durkhemian ‘social
facts’ but Atomic PEN structural change contains the social energy for social
transformation and has properties, structures, space and behaviour for studies. “Durkheim said more about social facts but he did not
explain the structure of that ‘social fact’ neither did he explains its
composition and behaviour nor the Neo-Durkhemian describe the movement and the
directions of that ‘social facts’ until now that the theory of social Atomic
PEN structural change has been able to see through sociological lens the social
phenomenon that informs the atomic structural change of the society. Marx Weber
too, was silent on the structure of an action altogether, while Herbert Spencer
was able to identify that observation and reasoning are combined, but neither
has ex-rayed the Atomic patterns and structures and  forms in which they exist i.e. either
observations or the reasoning until the facts behind it was explored by the
sociological theory of Atomic PEN structural change to present as observations
or reasoning contain the social energy which depict the P,E and N and they are
dynamic actions, reasoning and the fact behind social facts or any global
social phenomenon, all are the product of the atomic PEN structural changes
which inform us of their very existence as objective reality. “Therefore, the
justification for the discovery of the social Atomic PEN structural theory of
change  is  to promote the frontier of intellectual
crusade of the logical positivism to 
follow the trend of scientific progression of Sociology as a science of
society to attain maturity of natural science such as physics and chemistry, as
advocated by August Comte and Emile Durkheim, (1897), corollary to that,  Sociologists were left with no option but to
use  the ‘positivistic approach in social
scientific theorizing. “Durkheim
held so strongly to his conviction on ‘social facts’ to develop his polemics
against August Comte, while challenging Herbert Spencer, Weber inclusive on the
ground that their Sociological approach was not scientific enough and argued
that ‘social facts’ like ‘natural facts’ should be treated as ‘thing’ and the
two sciences can be alternated to explain human social action and interactions,
John Rex (1961). Structural functionalist such as Durkheim who consistently
stands on the belief of Comtean school of thought with the application of
scientific techniques for discovery and explanation of social phenomenon,
largely did structural but macro analysis, taking social system as their
subject matter of scientific inquiry and investigation and not Atomic PEN
structural analysis that could provide the discovery of social phenomenon
driven by social energies of PEN structure with (+-n). The theory argued that
the social energy of (+-n) also facilitates social interaction and contained in
human social actions and interactive situation to further determine change and
its possible direction in behavioural pattern and its strength”. Bintube noted
that, to avoid methodological errors in the design for theorizing, he applied
an enhanced deductive but sociologically elastic method to enable discovery,
spacing niche for empirical testing and falsification for scientific checks and
proof. The discovery of social Atomic PEN structural theory of change by Dr.
Bintube as three class model is highly parsimonious social theory with Ockam
Razor’sdisposition as three class model for change. The theory has employed
deductive method as design to contain integrated elements with fewer elements
of induction such as FGD to illicit data for comparison and possible
‘transplant’ of natural phenomenon to explain human phenomenon deductively as
the method to enable its discovery and generalisation of same as scientific
process of social investigation as he posits 
in his sociological theorizing. Keat etal (1982) in “Haralambus and
Holbon; themes and perspectives” p, 850, noted that scientific theorizing
should come in the form of “postulate the existence of entities which have
not been observed”. He further added that magnetic fields also form part
of scientific theory. Karl Popper in his book “the logic of scientific
discovery” (1959), affirms that, “natural science produces causal
explanations and describe them in terms of structures, mechanism and processes.
Karl popper urged social scientific researchers especially, sociologists to
demonstrate their dexterity to specify which factors or variables determine
what and at what instance and whether these mechanisms operate or not” and
to provide variable content and  their
classification as proof of what was observed. “Social Atomic PEN Structural dynamics explain
change in individual behaviour and its effects on other possible structures to
modify our attitude and social relationships in the society”. Bintube’s social
theory of Atomic PEN Structural Change is “profiled with the basic assumption,
theoretical content; methodology and critique. Various theories of social
change were reviewed to show social Atomic PEN Structural link with them.
Diverse Sociological thoughts were examined and compelling Sociological
inquiries were made on what ab initio necessitates structural change and
hunched to challenge existing thoughts. The theory argues that any social
change, irrespective of its classification, contains social energy and is
deeply and inherently rooted in any possible change, both apparent and
invisible, to inform further change in behaviour. Sociological theory
construction, especially the one applying Karl Popper’s deduction approach,
involves reversal of an existing theory founded on the basis of systematic
process of Durkhemian induction.  Emphasis is placed on better
understanding of social structures to enable social relations and its
consequential effects on other Sociological fundamentals to cause change in
social Atomic PEN Structures. The Atomic PEN Structural theory of change has
concrete variables as the basic components for classification and enumeration
for definition of social situations and integration of complexities of 
social dynamic density of social interactions in the society, especially the
one involving  Atomic PEN Structures”. Thus, Dr. Bintube “deductively abstracts the
social energy of Protoneous (P+) with positive social value (+), the social
energy of  Electroneous (E-) with negative  social value (-) 
and the social energy of Neutroneous (n) with neutral social value of
calibrating the society to context specific and equilibrium. The theory can
explain any social phenomenon with its characteristics for definition and
description of human social actions and interpretation of social world in
social problem, investments and utility. Thus, (Bintube 2020), Social Atomic
PEN Structural theory of change has the strength to define social division of
labour because the PEN structure performs different functions and are assigned
+-n cogitations to suggest social Atomic PEN change, especially the N in PEN
structure,  is to calibrate and
further  recalibrate any social system to
context and equilibrium in the event of chaotic situation and help show
direction for positive social change to rescue society from quagmire. The
strength for social mobility means the PEN structure rotates on its social
orbit firmly supported by its configuration and is steadily moving in its likewise
progressive manner. Bintube has discovered a new vista of social phenomenon in
social science for study with enormous characteristics that are
sociological.  The theory is a social
phenomenon with the capacity of socially homogenizing because the social PEN
structure possesses the characteristics to form and combine to enable social
webs of relationship among individuals in the society and then to combine and
disintegrate to further blend and mix with other elements to inform upper layer
change of social structure and to give adequate description of a complex social
dynamic density of the society. So, the PEN structure has power of social
heterogeneity and ability for coexisting with individual members of the society
as  the social Atomic PEN structure
relate  with other variables for better
understanding of the society sociologically. The theory has been discovered to
have ability to socially cohere because the PEN structure is ordered,
independent as to their social inequality 
and interdependent with one another as to their mutuality and social
consensus of  social energies of (+-n) to
combine  to enable social harmony and
consensus to form and combine from simple state of development  to a more complex, heterogeneous  form of society and enable social  mobility as well as stratified in their
respective class of PEN and well configured on their configuration supported by
the social orbitous.  The theory has presented a standard view of social
Atomic PEN structure as ‘Sociological translat’ which is galvanized to view any
social system as phenomenal and that is reminiscent of the natural one. 
The social PEN approach is better described as ‘inside outside alternated and
multifaceted sociology’ to imagine back forward social world from the reflection
of a natural phenomenon, though,  it
differs significantly from the C.R. Mills’ perspectives on Sociological
imagination. “The Atomic PEN Structural theory of change is
potent for Sociological interrogation of any social relationship or social
change in the society; a dream which August Comte dropped to rest in peace and
Durkhem, the empiricist who stand on the scientific pedestal of the Comtean
logical positivist school of theoretical development of sociology. Logical
positivism has encouraged the examination of social life periscoping natural
phenomenon to explain human social action and interpretation of social life
which the social theory of Atomic PEN Structural change has discovered for the
first time in the field of social sciences. Problematic statements have been
drawn and justification was made for the discovery of the theory of Social
Atomic PEN structural change. Concrete concepts, variables and constructs were deductively
discovered in Atomic PEN Structures as potent sociological fundamentals in
theory construction were formulated to describe social world. A number of
themes, including sub-themes for Sociological theorizing were flagged through
grounded approach. Logical deduction process of theorizing applying a theory
founded on the basis of inductions utilized the “Dalton Atomic Theory” as
the Comteam specimen and inferred in the discovery of the Social Atomic PEN
theory for Sociological study. Another feature which makes the theory of social
Atomic PEN structural change socially formidable is its characteristics to
allow for differentiation, integration, ‘visibility of the invisible and the
capacity to change from one form to another to inform subsequent change at
macro stage of a social phenomenon. This suggests classifications of social life
as invisible, visible and its indivisibility with social energy of PEN to
synthesis social phenomenon for projection to the upper level change with
possible direction for change. It explains much of social bonding to enhance
harmony of the PEN structure to reproduce social capital in the process of
change chain that is the reintegrative capacity of the Atomic PEN structural
theory of social change. “The Atomic PEN structure enables social
disintegration and so, it has the tendency of ‘social differentiation and
integration to explain social world. The social theory carves its niche based
on the reversal of an empiricist theory for social life which characterizes
sociological handshake with natural physical phenomenon in chemistry.
Constructs, variables and concepts are presented to ensure the Atomic PEN
structural niche for sociological theorizing. The social equation  
has ensured theoretical saturation by logical deduction process of abstraction
substituted “Dalton Atomic Theory” for “Social Atomic PEN Structural
Theory of Change”, a Comteam approach later popularized by Durkhemian
school of thought.  Also presented in this text are how to notice Atomic
PEN structures through Sociological lens with contemporary examples on the
context of Socio-economic and political fundamentals of our everyday lives. The
social Atomic PEN structural dynamics take place in our offices, homes and in
our cars. Individual member of the society creates Atomic PEN structures every
day, everywhere and at all time and it is a global social phenomenon. The
discovery and subsequent construction of the social Atomic PEN structural
theory of change, has established a three class model as its nomological
network. The cardinal principle of the social Atomic PEN structural theory of
change has been presented. The theory has provided an opportunity for its
utilization in Social investment and utility. The social theory of Atomic PEN
structural change shouldn’t be misconstrued for symbolic interactionism of
Herbert Blummer and George Mead, which emphasise the production of meaning out
of interacting with symbols, but the Atomic PEN structural theory of change,
sees change from the perspectives of an Atomic properties in relations to
social structures which are visible, invisible and indivisible. The
interactionist perspective provides dichotomy which suggest classification of
self along the theoretical plane of ‘the me’, ‘the I’ and the generalised
others’ point of view. However, beyond that, the social theory of Atomic PEN
structural change has provided concrete variables as PEN structure of P+, E-
and N for better description of a phenomenon, reminiscent of R. K. Merton’s
mode of adaptation as expansionist to Durkhemian ‘Anomie’. The social Atomic
PEN structural theory has nexus with other social theories as the Charles Right
Mills, Sociological Imagination but significantly, different from the social
thoughts of Mills in many respects. Mills sociological imagination sees change
from the perspectives of others opinion with variables such as social-economic
and political antecedents of an individual tells more as opinion are sample
from the  demography for change which
have been over flogged by previous researches, but the Atomic PEN structural
theory of change  argues that change  is driven by social energy of
(+-n) spectrum and it’s inherently built in all mega structure as a social
fibre to inform Atomic level change with the social strength of coiling 
to form and combine social webs of relations  with  elements of a
phenomenon to cause change to inform upper level  stage in change series.
The Atomic PEN structural theory of change is not the learning modeling of
Evans Pavlov and B.F Skinner’s operant and classical conditioning theory, nor
the cognitive mapping theory but it’s a social theory, which contains the
social P+, the social E- and the social N to serve as calibre to calibrate and
further recalibrate the social system to context and equilibrium ensuring peace
for developmental activities to take up. The theory is also not the theory of 
‘coroners’ deductive of ethmomethodology of Harold Gafinkel and Zimmerman,
driven by ‘mind as the  reflection is the pattern reflexive’ but the
social theory of Atomic PEN argues that humans produce Atomic PEN structures
around them on daily basis through interactions in their homes, offices, cars
and everywhere.  The transformation of these structures is determines by
the individual members of the society and their relations to those structures
which produce tremendous meaning. Some are seen while others are not very
apparent, but they are there as objective reality and have the social strength
to migrate to the visible stage provided there is perfect interplay of man and
the PEN social energy of (+-n) for change. The theory of social Atomic PEN
structure has with it the characteristics of social visibility, invisibility
and social indivisibility of giving description of a structural change and they
exist as we relate with individual members of the society in our everyday
social life to produce meaning with consequential effects on other possible
social relationship to cause change or modify individual behaviour. Lastly,
further illustrations and discussions on Atomic PEN structural theory of change
has been presented alongside Critique.” This is the synopsis of the theory, the full
bulletin is underway. Speaking
with Newsdiary in Abuja, Dr. Mustapha Bintube said “as a social scientist,
since the industrial revolution of the 19th century many theories
were propounded by the early philosophers and between that time and now (about
200 years), structures and human lives are changing, the society is gradually
improving and changing. We need scholars to pay attention to those changes.
There are so many research institutes, they need to be funded to improve on
their researches and link those institutes to national development priorities
for outcome need to be connected to ministries, departments and agencies, MDAs
of government to improve on policy thrust of the government to actualize their
vision and mission and the organizational goals and that will actually
benchmark the entire policies for global standard. At the end of the day,
whatever new discovery during their research will be integrated into the
existing policies within the ecosystem to positively affect the socio-economic
condition of the individual members of the society. When you
look at the 19th century postulations of Sen Simon, David Hume,
August Comte, Karl Marx, Emile Durkheim, Montesque, John Stuart Mills etc,
these are theories that explain social actions, interaction and the behaviour
and between 19th century and 21st century, we have more than 200
years. We need to come up with newer discoveries. Once you
pass through the Post Graduate School, you are supposed to reason and think to
come up with original to improve on the philosophy of ideas that will improve
the living standard of the citizens within your country and elsewhere. August
Comte coined Sociology, but Emile Durkheim introduced the scientific methods,
the same methods used in Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry, they are called
logical positivist school of thought (positivism). They believe in analysis
that is highly scientific, regressional and quantitative method or nomothetic
method as opposed to idiographic methods, poteriori as opposed to aposteriori,
something from experience and something that you can just draw from the
fundamentals of things around you as they exist. In
support of Durkheim said Dr. Bintube started looking at natural; physical  phenomenon with a view to explaining
human;  social phenomenon side by side
and deductively  reason that, there is
gap in knowledge in the sense that, in social science people say social change
has been the crux of social science. In physical; natural science as well, what
they look at is change. “So, we both look at change, one from the social
perspective and the other from the natural, physical perspective. Durkheim said
a social scientist can use what they use in physical, natural science in social
science. If that is the case, what informed that change in the first place,
forget about whatever classification you are going to give. What informed that
change should be our concern and that has not been discussed. Emile Durkheim is
talking of social facts as things which exist independent of the actor’s view
point and his interpretation of the social world. Anything/everything is social
fact provided you have no influence over it; like you have no influence over
the laws that govern your life in the society. It is a social fact and phenomenal,
but what we are saying is, what is the composition or shape of that social
fact? What is the elementary form of that social fact? Does it have a shape; is
it mobile or static, akin to Herbert Spencer’s social static and social
dynamics? Whether it is homogenous or heterogeneous? That has not been actually
looked into by scholars. So, I decided to come out with a new finding or
discovery of what I refer to as ‘ the social Atomic PEN Structural change’, a
change informed by social proteneous (P+), social electroneous (-) and social
nuteneous (n), (PEN) deductive of Dalton Atomic theory as a social phenomenon
in social science discipline with the characteristics and so it has
classifications of the social PEN structure of invisibility and in divisibilility,
a  natural phenomenon reverse to be
discovered as social phenomenon in sociology as a multifaceted and
multidimensional discipline which study man and his society. The social atomic
PEN structure theory of change exist and it’s a social phenomenon suigeneris.  It exists, it changes form, it has shape,
configuration and orbit that allow social mobility. It is highly stratified
because it has social proteneous, social electroneous and social nutreneous on
its configuration; they are well ordered and they also allow things to change,
yet they cannot be seen. If they cannot be seen, then they will be at the level
of the social atomic PEN structural change to form and combine a kind of web
i.e. social heterogeneity as opposed to social homogeneity. Once the social
atomic structures homogenize in their numbers they will come up with a form of
structure resemblance of the previous as complex heterogeneous structure distinct
from the simple homogeneous one. The full bulletin of the theory is underway. (Editor’s note: Will be great to receive readers’ reactions)