Attorney General of the Federation
and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, SAN has said that the country’s
justice sector has recorded tremendous success in speedy implementation of
justice in 2019. He stated this on Thursday in Good
Morning Nigeria, NTA’s news magazine program. Malami, the first Minister to have
participated in this year’s Good Morning Nigeria NTA program, explained that
his ministry’s policies in 2019 have succeeded in deepening the country’s
democratic process by pushing for legislations and constitutional amendments. In the area of institutional support
also, the Attorney General said the judicial autonomy at states’ level has
succeeded in ensuring efficient and speedy determination of election petitions,
noting that judicial amendment that reviewed the nature of cases that could go
to Supreme Court has reduced the number of outstanding cases pending
adjudication at the apex court. Malami also said his ministry has
been able to fully support the present administration’s anti-corruption crusade
by ensuring the recovery of billions of stolen funds to the country. He added that the Ministry of
Justice has supported the legislation that boosted the country’s revenue
generation to a substantial level, thereby increasing its Internally Generated
Revenue, more than ever before. This according to him has played vital role in
Nigeria’s economic advancement and prosperity. The Justice Ministry according to
Malami has provided the desired support to security security. He said with his
Ministry’s support, Nigeria has saved enough money that ordinarily would be
spent on security. He observed that with proscribtion
of some organisations presumed to be threat to national security, the Ministry
has made Nigeria to avoid spendings on avoidable security challenges. The AGF then assured Nigerians his
ministry’s commitment to push for legislations that will better their lives,
particularly in the area of safeguarding their rights, Justice Sector Reforms
and enhancement of the rule of law, among others. Making reference to the recent
Federal Government’s decision of releasing the former National Security
Adviser, Sambo Dasuki and publisher of Sahara Reporters, Omoyele Sowore, Malami
assured Nigerians that government will continue to ensure compliance with court
orders and upholding the rule of law in 2020 and beyond.