(EFCC
Press release) Justice Mojisola Dada of the Special Offences Court, sitting in
Ikeja, Lagos, on Monday, January 13, 2019, admitted in evidence a document
tendered by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, against a
suspected fraudster, Jean Codo and his company, Transport and Port Management System
Limited, TPML. Codo
and his company, TPMS, are standing trial on a seven-count charge bordering on
stealing to the tune of €29,000,000.00 (Twenty-Nine Million Euro), property of
the Federal Government of Nigeria. One
of the counts reads: “That you, Jean Codo and TPMS Transport and Port
Management Systems Limited, sometime in 2010 in Lagos, within the jurisdiction
of this honourable court, conspired to commit felony, to wit: stealing of about
€29,000,000.00 (Twenty-Nine Million Euros), property of the Federal Government
of Nigeria.” The
defendants pleaded not guilty to the charge. At
the resumed hearing today, the second prosecution witness, PW2, Stefan Somogyi,
an accountant with Antasa International Group , showed the court documents
containing the general account and invoices of a Belgium-based company, ATPMS,
its profit and loss records as well as the income it generated between 2010 and
2011. Led
in evidence by the prosecution counsel, Rotimi Oyedepo, Somogyi said ATPMS
generated a sum of €29million ( Twenty-nine Million Euros) as the total income
and turnover. Somogyi
also told the court that the only income generated was the invoices the
defendant sent to them. When
the prosecution sought to tender the document, Bolaji Ayorinde, SAN, counsel to
the first defendant, Codo, objected to its admissibility. Ayorinde
argued that the document was not relevant to the case and that the details of
the computer used to produce the document were not stated in the document. The
court , however, admitted the document in evidence. During
cross-examination by Ayorinde, the witness told the court that he didn’t
service TPMS, but ATPMS. The
witness also said he never worked for Nigerian Ports Authority, NPA or the
Federal Government. He,
however, confirmed that he knew the defendant had a contract with the NPA. Counsel
to the first defendant, Ayorinde, informed the court of a bail application for
his client, and also asked for a short date for hearing of the application. Justice
Dada adjourned the matter until January 20, 2020 for hearing of the
application.