Economic and Financial Crimes
Commission, EFCC, on Friday January 17, 2020, got  nominated as the winner
of THISDAY Newspaper’s  Institution of the Decade Award.  The
Newspaper is presenting the Award to the Commission in commemoration of its
25th Anniversary which comes up on Monday , January 20, 2020, in Lagos State. EFCC, after a painstaking selection
by the THISDAY’S Board of Editors, emerged the Institution of Decade along with
the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN).   24  different winners
emerged,  two in each of the 12 categories  announced by the
Newspaper. The Commission’s profile as the
strongest anti-corruption institution in Africa earned it the Award after
meeting the Board of Editors’ standard. According to the Board, which
considered strength of industry knowledge and professional advice, nominated
the Commission based on its public engagement and enlightenment, training and
capacity building, sensitisation, arrests, convictions, asset recoveries,
prosecution and  competence in the fight against corruption. “Since its establishment in 2003 by
the Olusegun Obasanjo administration, the Economic and Financial Crimes
Commission, (EFCC), remains Nigeria’s foremost anti-graft agency”, the
Statement read It also stressed that, 
“Its zeal to achieve its mission statement of ridding Nigeria of economic
and financial crimes and coordinate the domestic effort of the global fight
against money laundering and terrorists financing, has birthed a new public
order, especially in spending public funds. This new conscience has now earned
it the editor’s pick as the institution of the decade”. In the last decade, the Commission
recorded 2,447 convictions; and billions of cash recoveries in local and
foreign currencies.  It has also addressed financial corruption and money
laundering by prosecuting and convicting a number of high-profile corrupt
individuals, ranging from Nigeria’s former chief law enforcement officer to
several bank chief executives, governors, senators and captains of
industries. The Commission made considerable
efforts towards building public consciousness against graft and unbeatable
consistence  in fighting corruption in Nigeria.  It stands tall as
the topmost  corruption- fighting agency in Nigeria commanding high
regards among Nigerians and the International Community.