Kogi State Governor, Alhaji Yahaya
Bello on Thursday received delegation of the people of Tawari Community at Govt
House Lokoja, and assured them of timely distribution of relief materials to
victims of the attack. Some gunmen had on Jan. 2 attacked
Tawari community in Kogi Local Government Area, killed over 19 people, burnt
down buildings, Churches and palace of the king of the community. Addressing the delegation, the
Governor said that a committee had been set up that would immediately commence
the distribution of relief materials to the victims of the attack by gunmen. According to the governor, the
committee is to immediately commence the distribution of relief materials to
ensure that all those affected get the items. He called for the cooperation of the
traditional rulers, youths groups and other stakeholders to identify those
affected so they can get the support of government. He said that he would ensure that
every community in Kogi state should be able to protect themselves. The governor urged the people to
live in peace with themselves, and live together with those who come to stay
with them, but charged them to resist anyone who come to launch attack against
them. A minute silent was observed for the
souls lost during the attack. The governor described the incident
as a terrorist attack and assured that his government would go after the
attackers and make them to face the law. He reassured the people of adequate
security, saying he would continue to strengthen the vigilante and other
security agencies for community policing. He promised to use every instrument
of government to support every community to defend themselves. He further appreciated the security
agencies for their support, urging them to go after the attackers to where ever
they came from and smoke them out of the state. Reacting to the earlier demand of
the Aguma of Tawari Kingdom Alhaji Idris Alhassan Yusuf, the governor, said
that the committee had been set up to commence the distribution of relief
materials, medical assistance and biffing up of security along the
borders. In his remarks, the administrator of
Kogi Local Government, Barrister Tanko Musa, commended the governor for his
swift reaction to the crisis, which had restored normalcy to the area.