The
recent announcement of Visa On Arrival in Nigeria for Africans by President
Mohammadu Buhari during a recent peace and development summit in Cairo, Egypt
is one laudable policy that has not elicited as much excitement among Nigerians
as it deserves despite the huge socio economic opportunities inherent in it for
Nigeria in particular and Africa in general. This policy initiative by Nigeria,
one of Africa’s key economies and demography, comes on the back of the signing
of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement, a treaty seeking to establish
a continent-wide marketplace with increased trade and freer movement among its
major economic powers is indeed a game changer and major boost for the decades-long
desire of Africa’s founding leaders for one indivisible Africa and freer
movement of people in the continent. We
desire an Africa in which Africans require no visas to travel to any part
thereof. This is one sure way to boost the prospects of intra Africa trade as
well as harness the great potentials the continent is endowed with. Africa is
currently like a donkey working for everybody. We produce what creates wealth
in other continents but get next to nothing from it partly because there is
very low trade between Africans. The
African Union (AU) and many of the continent’s economic organizations think along
this line too and want this free movement of Africans to be a reality as soon as
possible. Of course, it is not an entirely original concept as the European
Union already has a visa-free policy for its citizens and the effect is obvious
in the socio-economic life of Europe. The popular European Champions League,
their respective domestic football leagues and other sport tournaments would not
be as successful without the free movement of Europeans within the continent.
The Confederation of African Football (CAF) is still struggling with its
competitions partly because there is no free movement across Africa for
Africans. There
is also the idea of an African passport which dates back a quarter of a century
but has failed to catch on with countries that fear an increase in illegal
migration and terrorism among others. Indeed, not a few Nigerians have
expressed same concerns over the recent visa policy announced by President
Mohammadu Buhari, particularly on the heels of our current struggle with
terrorism and other anti-social activities. There are indeed more positives to
this policy than negatives and there are adequate tools to mitigate the
perceived risks in visa liberalization by the relevant security and border
control agencies. It is important to emphasize that visa on arrival is only
applicable to visitors coming into Nigeria through the airports. The wrong
impression among many Nigerians is that our African brothers and sisters can
just walk through any of our land or sea borders and be allowed entry. Some smaller
African countries already offer visa on arrival to all African passport holders
and it has witnessed an increase in African visitors to those countries for
business and leisure, yet without the manifestation of the perceived risks. But
coming from Africa’s big brother has suddenly changed the game. Nigeria has so
much to offer and remains a wonder to many Africans in particular, which will
make a visit to this great country their preferred choice. It is understandable
that some of the growing and large economies in Africa still worry about the
impact that illegal migration might have on labour markets and cities. It is
therefore a good step that Nigeria, being a super power within Africa, despite
her own internal challenges, has completed all arrangements for the
implementation of visa on arrival for all Africans from January 2020, subject
to meeting the criteria that will be set by the Nigeria Immigration Service
(NIS). Nigerians
can be assured that the NIS, ably led by Comptroller General Muhammed
Babandede, MFR will focus on efficient and affordable visa on arrival processes,
invest in biometric technology and Advance Passenger Information System, the
Migration Information Data Analysis System and link up with various
anti-terrorist organizations to ensure that Nigeria’s internal security is not compromised
by undesirable visitors. NIS is expected to invest heavily in the training of
the officers and men on customer service and international standard of
communication while working with other stakeholders to ensure that visiting
Africans do not stay beyond the duration of their visa and respect our labour laws. There
is no doubt that our international airports will get busier with visits from
our African brothers and sisters. There is still so much for the Federal
Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) to do for this policy not to become
counterproductive and embarrassing to the country. Many Africans see Nigeria as
a very rich, giant country and expect the best of everything from us. Our major
international gateway, which is the Murtala Mohammed International Airport, in
its present state will be a big disappointment and an initial shock for our
African brothers and sisters. In fact, it could demystify Nigeria if nothing is
done quickly to improve the look and feel of our airports before this policy goes
into full effect. The passport control areas need serious improvement which
includes expansion, the cooling system needs to be overhauled and there is an
urgent need for improvement in luggage collection. The big brother of Africa
has belled the cat and we have to lead by example in extending the selfless
African hospitality to our African visitors as indeed other visitors. The branding
of Nigeria as with any country starts right from the airports. First
impression, they say, lasts longer. The
benefits of this Visa On Arrival policy are many. It presents a good
opportunity for Nigeria to be a major consideration for hosting international events
particularly the ones scheduled to hold in Africa. Nigeria can leverage on our
dominance of the entertainment industry in Africa to host more international and
African music/movie festivals and awards with a bigger audience from all over
Africa eager to attend our ever improving concerts and watch our artistes who
are attracting global acclaim and followership. It is indeed a major boost for
the entertainment and tourism industries in particular and I think billionaire
artistes and entertainment practitioners are about to emerge in double digits
in Nigeria because Nigeria has tactically expanded its market through this visa
policy. The
policy is also a boost to religious pilgrimage with opportunity for Africans to
attend some of our religious activities like the Holy Ghost Festival, Shiloh,
The Experience Christian Music Concert and many more. On the cultural side, Ojude
Oba Festival by the Ijebus can now attract visitors and guests of Ijebu sons
and daughters from Africa without the hassles of visa procurement. Olojo Day in
Ife can attract African visitors and even Argungu Fishing Festival. The African
fans of Enyimba Football Club can come over to watch their darling team play in
Aba. This further opens up Ariaria market to customers from Africa who may find
the creativity of the Aba manufacturers more appealing than buying from Europe
or Asia. More people will bring their money here to spend, hotels will make
money and in no distant time the hotel industry will need more rooms, bars and
lounges will make money, jobs will be created and a decent number of Nigerians
will be taken out of poverty on account of this policy. The
Nigeria’s aviation industry may ultimately be the biggest beneficiary of this
policy with Nigeria becoming a major hub for flights into Africa if only FAAN
can up its game by making our airports to be competitive. The
socio economic benefits of this move by Nigeria can be as huge as the country and
the people of Nigeria want it. President Mohammadu Buhari has used this policy
to create an enabling environment for Nigerians to dominate and influence
Africa. Beyond all these, the initiative is expected to take us some steps up
in the Africa Visa Openness Report published by the African Development Bank
(AfDB) and is a further boost to the Ease Of Doing Business in Nigeria. It will
also create more awareness for the commodities, goods and services that other
African countries can source from Nigeria thus boosting intra African trade. Visa
On Arrival policy by Nigeria, a big African economy will no doubt foster
Africa’s integration. This move by Nigeria has become a moral obligation on
other big economies in the continent and it is just a question of time before
they also come up with similar gesture. The quest for free movement of Africans
within Africa being embraced by more countries need, however, to be
complemented by other reforms and massive investments in connectivity
especially transport infrastructure in order to take the full benefit out of it.
The limitations we have placed on ourselves have only made Africans poorer and
stifled the growth of the continent. These initiatives are the only ways to
make Africa truly great and take our people out of poverty. Visa liberalization
is only one piece of the interconnected pan African puzzle, but it is
nonetheless a very critical one which can be a catalyst to all other necessary
reforms and investments. President
Mohammadu Buhari needs to be commended for taking this bold step despite the
challenges the country is facing. Mr President has thrown a big challenge to
other big economies in Africa. The world is eagerly waiting for their reaction
which would determine how great Africa can be in the next decade when we expect
big global changes and redistribution. I foresee a massive return to Africa as
the West’s financial and social structures become severely challenged within
the next decade. It is time Africa takes advantage of a decade that is clearly
hers by ensuring full integration of the continent. Ademola Adeyinka is a Senior Special
Assistant to the Honourable Minister of Interior.