By Chimezie Godfrey The MacArthur Foundation has expressed dismay over how corrupt politicians in Nigeria wasted N60trillion budgeted for the development of the country since 1999 till 2018. The Country Director of the foundation,
Dr. Kole Shettima made the disclosure Thursday  in Abuja during the public presentation of the
book, “Nigeria: Corruption and Opacity in Governance,” authored by
Mr. Jide Ojo a public affairs analyst. Shettima, represented by the
Foundation’s Deputy Country Director, Olaide Oladayo pointed out that
corruption remains the country’s biggest challenge since 1999 till now. “Between 1999 and 2018, Nigeria
budgeted more than N60trn, the managers are politicians and not development
partners. “And we have asked what has
happened to the N60trn budgeted for Nigerian public and this is just one
federal level,” he said. Shettima  also said that it is risky fighting corruption
in Nigeria as those involved will mobilise resources to obstruct it. He stressed that many people now
find it difficult to condemn them or even come out in the fight against
corruption. According to him, a significant
percentage of Nigerians have shown interest in the fight against corruption,
adding that what that seems to suggest is  that a lot of Nigerians when it
is their turn to benefit they don’t talk. The Author of the book, Mr. Jide Ojo
in his remark said the reason for the country’s inability to match the rest of
the world is due to lack of accountability. He disclosed that the panacea to the
country’s underdevelopment can be found in its ability to tackle corruption by
ensuring accountability. “No matter the blame game we do
it is not going to solve the problem. Even if our budget increased ten folds
and we don’t solve the problem of corruption, it will be like pouring water in
a basket,” he said. The Director General, Technical Aid
Corps, Dr. Pius Osunyikanmi blamed the country’s corruption challenges on
neo-colonialism. “President Buhari has taken
anti-corruption to a level that he is trying to make it one of the economic
policies to be able to see that indeed we are able to recover as much as we
could recover to be able to emancipate the people,”he said. (With reports by Daily Trust)