President Muhammadu
Buhari’s daughter, Hanaan did not fly a Presidential jet on a private visit to
Bauchi. Rather, she was on an official assignment to represent her father, the
President, at an event in the town,says the Buhari Media Organisation,BMO. Making this
clarification in a press statement, the BMO said in that circumstance,
convention and protocol allowed her to use the aircraft. The organisation
asserted that this had happened in the past. In the statement
signed by its Chairman  Niyi Akinsiju and Secretary Cassidy Madueke, BMO
said the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was only playing politics in its
comment on the matter. “Even if the opposition party did not fully admit
it,  members of the First Family are not barred from travelling in a
Presidential jet, especially to an official function. “In any case, PDP
lacks the moral right to make this accusation because the party has a record of
outright abuse and misuse of Presidential jets in its sixteen years in power at
the centre”. “There was hardly
any time in the PDP years that aircraft in the Presidential fleet were not used
like charter jets, contrary to laid down regulations. There were instances in
the past where friends and members of the extended family of past Presidents
were given access to aircraft in the Presidential fleet. “One instance
that easily comes to mind was when some of the aircraft were used to ferry
guests for a wedding. This is aside from when a certain First Lady used planes
in the fleet for shopping sprees with her friends. “Now we have a
situation where one of the daughters of President Buhari was running an
official errand for her father but PDP chose to spin it as a private
photography trip. This is a very irresponsible act meant to score cheap
political points.” BMO said it was
laughable that PDP, in an attempt to obfuscate recent history, argued that
allowing Hanan to travel in one of the planes in the fleet amounts to ‘the
worst form of corruption’. “After years of a
fruitless search for dirt on the President, to the extent of making unfounded
allegations against President  Buhari, PDP now believes it has a smoking
gun on corruption in an awkward place. ” Is it not
amusing that a party whose officials and members are standing trial on sundry
charges of corruption has opted to describe travelling in a Presidential jet as
‘worst case of corruption’? “Several leading
lights of the last administration are standing trial, some have even returned
funds that were shared among party members in the run-up to the 2015 election
from the $2.1bn arms procurement fund. “Some electoral
officials have also been convicted for benefiting from slush funds shared by
former minister of Petroleum Resources, Diezani Allison-Madueke. “The jury is
still out on the $16bn spent on non-existent power projects between 1999 and
2007,  yet PDP wants Nigerians to see President Buhari’s daughter
travelling to Bauchi in a Presidential jet as ‘the worst form of corruption’. “Nigerians 
have not forgotten that one of the phrases that characterized the PDP years is
the belief that stealing is not corruption!”, the statement added