At swearing in,  presidents 
and vice presidents ,  as well as governors and their deputies,
usually  take an oath of office, where they will  promise to be
faithful and bear true allegiance to the Federal Republic of Nigeria. In
addition, they  also swear to discharge their duties to the best of their
abilities and in accordance with the nation’s constitution. Thereafter, they
assume their respective positions with the full compliments of their offices.
Since 1999, most governors have personalised public office rather than see it
as a  platform for public service. Section 190 of the 1999 Constitution
of the Federal Republic, as amended, stated clearly that where a state governor
is traveling, the document  requires him to handover power to his
deputy,  by transmitting a letter to the State House of Assembly. In clear
terms, the section  states that, “whenever the Governor transmit to the
Speaker of the House of Assembly a written declaration that he is proceeding on
vacation or that he is otherwise unable to discharge the functions of his
office, until he transmit to the Speaker of the House of Assembly a written
declaration to the contrary such functions shall be discharged by the Deputy
Governor as Acting Governor”.  However, most governors observe this
section in the breach. Significantly, it is common to see
governors refusing to allow their deputies to assume their functions in acting
capacities whenever they are leaving the country as the constitution enshrines.
In some cases, they argue that they personify the office and they can run
government from anywhere, given the advances in Information and Communication
Technology. However,  Malam Nasir Ahmad El-Rufai, the Governor of Kaduna
State, has been following the spirit and letter of this constitutional
provision since he assumed office in 2015. On several occasions, Governor El
Rufai has transmitted power to his former deputy, Arch Barnabas  Yusuf
Bala, when the call of duty takes him outside the country. Specifically, in May
2017, Bala   became the acting governor of Kaduna state. On May 16,
he even met with community leaders of different parts of the country who are
resident in Kaduna. The meeting was  a pre-emptive action  aimed at
staving off  the crisis that would have occurred , following the clash
between Yorubas and Hausa community in Ile Ife,  in Osun state. At the
meeting, leaders of Igbo, Yoruba, Igala ethnic groups, as well as those of
other ethnic nationalities,  convened at Government House to face the
looming crisis. Bala, in his appeal, had asked them to prevail on their people
to preserve the prevailing peace in the state, by desisting from spreading
rumour and circulating fake video clips.   In September 2018,
he  also stood in for Governor El Rufai when the latter travelled out
of  the country. In that capacity, he presided over the  swearing in
of Justice Muhammad Lawal Bello as the acting Chief Judge of Kaduna state. By his own admission, Barnabas
Bala  has said that he is one of the few deputy  governors that have acted
in their governors’ absence in this dispensation. In January, he confessed this
‘’privilege’’ at    a  political gathering at the Kachia
Township stadium, where the Kaduna State Campaign Council of All
Progressives  Congress(APC) went to seek for support in the run up
to  the last elections. According to him, ‘’most deputy governors are not
relevant in their states. They are just in government in name. But this is not
the case in Kaduna state, where I am being given due recognition and functions
of my office. This is very rare in the type of democracy that we are
practising.’’ Significantly, Governor El Rufai has
continued to accord  the same respect for the constitution, especially
section 190 which relates with acting governors, in this dispensation.  In
this regard, Dr Hadiza Sabuwa Balarabe, the deputy governor of Kaduna state, is
being given the recognition, respect and functions deserving  of her
office.  On several occasions, the governor has transmitted power to her
in the last six months.  Indeed, the  cordial working relationship
between the governor and his deputy started even before she assumed office. As
deputy Governor-elect,  Dr Balarabe  was made a Senior
Adviser-Counsellor and in that capacity, she was advising El Rufai on Human
Capital Development. Similarly, she attended    State Executive and
Security Councils meetings even while she was yet to be sworn into
office.  In addition, she  chaired the Transition Committee which
fashioned out the blueprint of the present administration’s second term during
the ‘’waiting period’’. Upon assuming office,  the
medical doctor-turned politician has been deputizing and acting on behalf of El
Rufai. Last June, she represented El the governor at the Ramadan Lecture of the
Federation of Muslim Women’s Association of Nigeria(FOMWAN). Likewise, she
represented Kaduna state at a symposium organised by the Federal Capital
Territory Archives and History Bureau, when it marked the Archival Day. Last
month, Dr Balarabe  represented Kaduna state at the  meeting of 
Northern Governors’ Forum.  In addition, she  represented her
principal at the Kaduna Book and Arts Festival(KABAFEST). Similarly, Dr Balarabe chairs the
State Executive Council, the highest decision-making body,  when El Rufai
is outside the state. Recently, the deputy governor had  presented the
2020 draft budget at a Town Hall meeting, where stakeholders made inputs.
Similarly, three days later, she submitted the document to the House of
Assembly as acting governor of Kaduna state, the first acting governor and
woman to have done so since the coming of this dispensation. Significantly, both Governor Nasir
El-Rufai and his deputy, Dr. Hadiza have further proven their respect for the
rule of law by allowing the Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Right
Honorable Aminu Abdullahi Shagali to assume the responsibilities and functions
of the governor in acting capacity. Specifically, Dr Balarabe is on leave and
the call of duty has taken Governor El Rufai  outside the country. On December
24, Acting Governor Shagali received a delegation of the Standing Committee on
Qur’anic Recitation Competition at the Council Chamber of Sir Kashim Ibrahim
House, Government House Kaduna.  In his remarks at the courtesy call,
Shagali  reiterated the policy of Kaduna state government over religious
tolerance. According to him, the government does not discriminate against any
religion, religious sect or denomination and that it is ready to partner with
any group that will add value to the El Rufai administration. Interestingly, this is not the first
time that the House Speaker, Rt Honourable Shagali will become acting governor
of Kaduna state. He assumed the reins of power on September 22, 2017, when he
received members of Course 3 of  the Nigerian Defence Academy(NDA), led by
former Senate President David Mark. The delegation paid the courtesy call on
the Shagali as part of the activities to mark their 50th anniversary. In this republic, Governor 
El-Rufai’s penchant for following the constitution  is exemplary.  At
this juncture, what Nigeria needs for her young and growing democracy to thrive
is the strengthening of institutions  and respect for the nation’s
constitution. El Rufai has  consistently toed that path and has been a
torchbearer in that respect. Ibrahim
is a Special Assistant on Media and Communication to Kaduna State Government.