Government College Ughelli Old Boys Association (GCUOBA)
will mark the Platinum Anniversary (75 Years) of the school on its Founder’s
Day Reunion and Annual General Meeting (AGM) holding at the College  premises on Wednesday, 15th January 2020 in
Ughelli, Delta State. At a press conference held in Yaba, Lagos on Thursday, 9th
January, 2020, the President General WorldWide of Government College Ughelli
Old Boys Association, Arc. Charles Majoroh, said the Old Boys were very proud
of their heritage. The products of the school over the last 75 years include
top diplomats, public administrators, corporate titans, leaders in various
professions and academics, but Arc Majoroh regretted the quality of teaching
and learning at the school in recent years, which he says the old boys association
has taken up as a challenge. According to him, the neglect of the school by the
government for many years forced the Old Boys to deploy resources to restore
the facilities at the school, adding that virtually all the student hostels,
classrooms, laboratories, library, administrative block and recreational
facilities have been restored and in some cases upgraded. In furtherance of the restoration project, the Class of
1970, which will be celebrating its Golden Jubilee anniversary of admission to
GCU, has renovated the School Assembly Hall, one of the projects to be
inaugurated at the Platinum Anniversary Celebrations. Arc Majoroh who was flanked by Mr Roy Odoko, Secretary
General of GCUOBA Worldwide; and Mr Obed Awowede, National Publicity Secretary
of the Association; said the Old Boys Association is committed to ‘restoring
the lost glories of the school to ensure a good place for current and future
students to learn.’ However, he was critical of the admission process into
public schools, which he said has lowered standards and encouraged examination
malpractices. The Leading Lights recipients are 13 old boys across the
generations who have made their mark in the humanities: The well-deserved twelve awardees are
honoured to reinforce the Old School value of rewarding excellence. The
Platinum Anniversary of GCU provides a great opportunity for score-keeping and
sober reflection. According to the Old Boys, it is vital that “the Old
School sustains the tradition of producing great minds that go on to positively
impact the larger society and the world in the years and decades ahead.” Government College Ughelli was founded on 17th January,
1945. The Old Boys association’s Constitution stipulates that the Founder’s Day
celebration should be on a Wednesday nearest to 17th January for administrative
convenience.