Agents of the Kwara State Governor,
Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq led by one of his aides in the early hours of  Thursday  morning demolished the structures on Plots 1,
3 and 5, otherwise known as Ile Arugbo (Old People’s Home) which belongs to
Late Dr. Abubakar Olusola Saraki, after heavy firing of gunshots and tear gas
canisters to scare away the women and youths who have been keeping vigil on the
land since New Year eve. The overnight demolition squad
eventually set to work after four failed attempts which were resisted by old
women and youths who have always gathered at the Ile Arugbo to benefit from the
social welfare Programme initiated by the late politician about 20 years ago.
The old women had resisted previous attempts to carry out the illegal demolition
exercise between the morning of December 31, 2019 and very early hours of
January 2, 2020. In a statement in Ilorin,  signed by Alhaji Bibire Ajape, chairman of the
Saraki Legacy Forum, the family stated that following the announcement by the
Governor that he had revoked the title on the land which had been rightfully
possessed by late Saraki for more than 20 years, they filed a case at the High
Court, Ilorin, on December 31, 2019, challenging the action. The suit with Number KWS/463/2019
between Asa Investments Limited and Governor of Kwara State, Kwara House of
Assembly, Attorney General of Kwara State, Director General of the Bureau of
Lands and the Inspector General of Police was filed on Tuesday. “In an obviously desperate attempt to pre-empt
the court case, the State Governor directed one of his aides to lead a
demolition team to the property on Tuesday morning accompanied by some
policemen. However, the policemen withdrew when they saw the crowd of old women
and youths who gathered to protest the illegal demolition exercise. With the
withdrawal of the policemen, the team from the state government were forced to
quickly leave the place. “Some hours later, exactly a few minutes to
the New Year, about 11.45pm, the particular aide led another team, this time
with a bulldozer and some policemen massed around the premises of Ile Arugbo
but were again resisted by the crowd of women and youth who had then decided to
mount a ceaseless vigil around the property. “Early this morning from 12.40am, while the
old women and youth were having their New Year entertainment as they mount
watch on the premises of Ile Arugbo, the aide again led a team of demolition
squad comprising security agents from the Government House, Ilorin, workers of
the Ministry of Works and some urchins to Ilofa Street. “For hours, their attempt to commence the
demolition exercise was rebuffed. At about 3.30am, the security agents began
heavy shooting of gun and tear gas canisters to dislodge the people protesting
against the demolition. It was after they were able to disperse the crowd that
the bulldozer moved into the street and commenced the demolition exercise. “It will be recalled that while the
Governor on December 27 claimed that there was no existing document showing
that the land was properly allocated to late Dr. Saraki, the same government
through its agent on Monday circulated a letter of allocation to Asa
Investments owned by Dr. Saraki in which the company was directed to pay the
sum of N1, 047, 090 (One Million, Forty Seven Thousand and Ninety Naira only).
The government then changed its story that the property was allocated to a
company which had nothing to do with any politician, dead or alive and that
they could not find any record of money paid. The Saraki family has maintained
that a Right of Occupancy title was issued to Asa Investment, an indication
that the allocation was lawfully concluded with all parties meeting their
obligations. “The pre-emptive move by the state government
to demolish the property was made to undermine and frustrate the judicial
process and it represents another act of disrespect for the judiciary and the
rule of law which the current government of Kwara State is known for. “While we praise the security
agencies in the state for refusing to supply their men from the respective
commands to participate in the Midnight Demolition Exercise, we call on them to
also caution their men attached to the Government House to stop being used to
settle political scores and avoid participating in illegal actions of the.
State Government. It is also important for them to caution the Governor to stop
escalating tension in the state. “On our part, we call on supporters of the
Saraki family, particularly the women and youth who were brutalized during the
attempts to carry out the illegal demolition exercise to maintain peace and not
take laws into their hands. We assure them that this illegality will not stand
as the family will pursue all legal means to claim the rights of their late
patriarch. “The family will like to wish all the numerous
supporters of Oloye a happy and prosperous year 2020”, Ajape stated.