By Emmanuel Ado Until 2015, the defunct  Kaduna State Internal Revenue Board, was
clearly an obvious impediment to the aspiration and capacity of previous
administrations of the state to deliver on its social contract with the
citizens of Kaduna State, as contained in Section 16 of the 1999 Constitution
of Federal Republic of Nigeria as amended, due to its abysmal performance in
revenue collection. The failure of the revenue agency can only be appreciated,
against  the Economic Objectives and Directive of State Principles, under
which the various governments are obliged to ensure the maximum welfare,
freedom and happiness of every citizen on the basis of social justice and
equality of status and opportunity. To further buttress the seriousness
attached to the attainment of the objective, Section 14(2b) explicitly states
that the security and welfare of the citizens shall be the primary purpose of
the government. The Kaduna State Board of Internal Revenue before the reforms and its
eventual transformation to Kaduna State Internal Revenue Service(KADIRS), was a
typical example of all that is fundamentally wrong with most government
agencies,it lacked accountability and focus,what Steve Dobberowsky described as
“organizational hesitancy”, which more or less limited its capacity
to achieve set targets. The Board willfully refused to collect the taxes and
levies that it was mandated to collect, and  when it did manage to, more
than 80% of the revenue collection ended up in private pockets,thus denying
government the revenue to deliver on its lofty objectives. The Board
notoriously got away being a significant obstacle to the attainment of
government objectives, fundamentally because the former administrations 
lacked the political will to reform the board, the obligations were not actionable 
or they were simply contented paying the salaries of the public service. Nasir El- Rufai, on assumption of office in 2015 inherited not just a
revenue agency that was dysfunctional, but a Public Service that was equally
unproductive,because of an aging workforce that lacked the capacity to deliver
service. Like El – Rufai has severally argued, “No Nation develops beyond
the capacity of its Public Service”. His  utter disdain for the
service,and public institutions generally is because they have greatly
contributed to the underdevelopment of Nigeria. It’s consequently not
surprising that the very first executive decision of El-Rufai was the urgent
reform of the Kaduna State Revenue Board and the Kaduna State Public Service
Revitalization and Renewal Programme, so as to improve the capacity and
efficiency of both to deliver effective service. Thankfully the reforms have
largely resolved the critical issues that had hitherto impeded their
efficiency, especially low revenue collection, productivity, redundancy,
duplication of roles, high proportion of aged workers, and unskilled
staff. When El-Rufai took over, he basically faced two clear choices; reform the
public service or perish. Very predictably he chose an encompassing reform that
would improve the internally generated revenue (IGR), which stood at an abysmal
N800 million a month, an amount that was grossly inadequate to cover the
overhead expenditure of the public service. Working with Ifueko Omoigui ,one time
Chairman of the Federal Inland Revenue Service(FIRS), El-Rufai embarked on a
surgical restructuring of the Kaduna State Revenue Board, into an efficient and
effective Service capable of raising the much needed finances. To give legal
backing to the reforms , The Kaduna State Tax (Codification &
Consolidation) Law, 2016 was signed which has  ushered in a new era in tax
administration in Kaduna State was enacted. The  key highlights of the
law; includes making Kaduna State Internal Revenue Service the sole revenue
collection agency, Harmonization and centralization of all revenue collection
and the Prohibition of cash collection,which made cash collection a crime. The
blockage of leakages was the killer punch and in no time the desired results
started rolling  in, such that by 2017 the IGR had increased from
N11.8billion in 2015 to N26.53billion to N30billion by 2018 and by 2019 over
N44 billion. A feat that has been achieved solely  by efficient collection
and without the introduction of new taxes. By making cash collection illegal, the huge revenue resources that hitherto
ended up in private pockets, started flowing into the coffers of the state
government, for the execution of the myriads of projects El-Rufai had promised
the people of Kaduna State. The reforms also frontally attacked leakages,and
made the revenue service the sole collecting and accounting authority, though
all taxes and fees continue to be assessed by the relevant ministries and
agencies. Though the swift  implementation of the Treasury Single 
Account (TSA) in 2015,  brought in over N25 billion scattered in more than
470 bank accounts into its TSA account with the Central Bank of Nigeria,moving
forward it was clear that this wasn’t enough to sustain government operations,
that the key remained getting KADIRS to function optimally,especially with El-
Rufai’s singular ambition is to generate a minimum of N70 billion,that would
wean the state from its dependence on the  “miserable”
allocation from the Federation Account. All indications point to the realization of the medium term objective of
El-Rufai ,as the Kaduna State Internal Service (KADIRS) has within (4) years
met the acceptable target of over N40billion. From a modest N2billion the
service is consistently generating well over N3 billion monthly, which is a far
cry from the paltry N800 million that was the standard collection during the
Peoples Democratic Party(PDP) era. Though the key to the successes recorded in
increasing the IGR,are clearly the reforms,but  the game changer is the
competent team that was hired to drive the reforms. Though Mukhtar Ahmed, the
pioneer chairman laid a solid foundation,there is no doubt that his lack of tax
background limited his achievement, an advantage Zaid Abubakar, the man
El-Rufai has entrusted with the herculean task of taking the service to the
next level has. Abubakar comes to the job with several advantages, chief being
his background as a core “tax man” and the fact that he is coming
from the FIRS, where as a tax auditor he had the duty of ensuring compliance by
taxpayers. In tax collection,compliance is critical,it makes a whole of
difference. Thankfully  Abubakar, with his superlative performance hasn’t
disappointed himself, nor  El-Rufai who appointed him. By reorganizing and
empowering the enforcement unit,creation of a tax intelligence and High
net-worth unit,total automation of motor vehicle administration and improved
staff welfare packages, has increased average monthly collection to a record
N3billion monthly and in the process surpassed the target of N43billion set for
the agency in 2019. It’s important to stress once more, that no new taxes have
been introduced,rather the giant strides recorded are due to continued blockage
of  leakages and active enforcement of Pay As You Earn(PAYEE), which this
year alone has led to the collection of over N9.4 billion in  backlog from
institutions like the Ahmadu Bello University,Zaria and Access  Bank.
El-Rufai,despite being an alumni  of the Ahmadu Bello University,Zaria 
bluntly refused to intervene on behalf of the institution,thus sending a strong
message that KADIRS would not in anyway be constrained by government from
performing its legitimate functions. The good people of kaduna State, and corporate bodies operating in the state
are already on notice that Zacchaeus the tax collector has indeed come to
judgement and that the era of ” shoddy deals”, that shortchanges the
state are past and more critical is the insistence by KADIRS in the correct
application  of the  tax table, the misapplication of which previous
administrations had exploited to their personal benefits. Abubakar, by words
and actions has shown that he breathes tax compliance, which is a critical
element  in tax collection. The new tax payer friendly KADIRS website,which
will enable taxpayers file tax returns, register for PAYEE, file complaints and
the quarterly engagement with tax payers, has proven useful in widening the tax
net to over 300,000 tax payers,a figure that is expected to increase with the
capture of petty traders under the Presumptive Tax,which explains the
confidence of the Service that in the next year the tax payer base will
hopefully hit a million. And storing it  in the Digital Tax Payers
Register for intelligence purposes,means no escape. The KADIRS team led by Abubakar deserves all the accolades for surpassing
the N43 billion target by over N1billion, but most especially for confirming by
its performance that government institutions can perform if properly positioned
and given the necessary support, like El-Rufai has done. Abubakar, also made an
emphatic statement that youths can deliver if given the opportunity. There is
absolutely no doubt that El-Rufai deserves huge commendation for his courageous
decision to entrust the KADIRS to Abubakar,based on his experience and
formidable credentials and for not allowing his age be a hindrance. And
thankfully Abubakar,has proven beyond doubt that he has the Midas touch of
Ifueko Omoigui and that like her,  he would change for better the fortunes
of KADIRS and make it a  reference point of what a focused team can
achieve. It’s good to know that Abubakar understands, that like a football coach he
is only as good as his last result ,so the over N44 billion  that he
generated in 2019 is taken for granted and he can be rest assured that any
future collection below that figure will trigger an inquest. Evidence that the
Service is bubbling with confidence is the fact that has increased the target
of N45 billion set by the government for the 2020 financial year to N60
billion, a clear indication of a man that knows his onions, that  is
equally determined and committed to continually improve the fortunes of KADIRS.
With hard work the N60 billion is definitely realizable,but if it doesn’t,it
will not be for the lack of ambition.