Something fundamental happened to
the Nigerian federation last week.It was small but within it is a greater
maximal political implication, especially for the much debated restructuring of
the skewed federal structure.The South West region of Nigeria has consciously
set the tone for national reforms in the security sub-sector.The emergence of
Amotekun is a bold message and strategic positioning of the region in the
envisaged future balancing of power within the federation. What is significant is the structure
itself, and not the mobilisation or the available ammunition. Of the six
zones,Yorubaland is the first to create a skeletal outfit with capacity and
capabilities to be awakened and deployed in service of the motherland.Political
leaders in the region may have been guided by considerations and developments
beyond Nigeria. I bet there is a transnational perspective to Amotekun’s
emergence. Contrary to what most analysts
identified,the threat to Yoruba nation is multinational rather than solely
national in outlook.Infact ,the national threat most Yoruba are quick to a
finger is itself under brutal siege of highly equipped and trained
transnational bandits.Deep review of development across North East and North West
region confirm that the source of threat Yoruba is afraid of are themselves
under a brutal onslaught from forces beyond their control. Most northerners,
including those in a government, are themselves seeking protection, and
security from deepening low scale insurgency that seems to be defying all
solutions. The mess has degraded state Chief executives who had to openly
romance and appease bandits, cattle rustlers, invidious jihadists and criminal
insurgents. The threat South West (seeks)  to tackle with Amotekun is from Greater
Sahel,wider Sahara, and Middle East.With Libya degenerating,with Sahel region
boiling ,with Niger republic bleeding,with a Benin republic as an explosion
waiting to happen,with multinational forces with dubious records and with Cameroon
deeply engulfed in unannounced civil war,the spillover into Nigeria is
envisaged.Weapons and Insurgents streaming into Nigeria with the porous border
is an established happening,painting the northern region as a cloudy battle
zone. The movement of bandits down South
,eyeing the luxurious life of coastal areas is real and therefore demanding
immediate action.Worst still,the infiltrators bear all signs of Sahelian
insurgents masquerading and defying surveillance of ill equipped official security
networks.Put more frankly, the north that Yoruba traditionalists are afraid of
herself is in trouble, as northerners are killed, maimed and assaulted by blood
thirsty transnational criminal warriors. The preceding thus implies that the
significance of Amotekun transcends national politics. It is a strategic move
to create a popular front to back up already overstretched and badly equipped
security forces. The concept of popular mobilisation forces is gaining an
increasing currency worldwide, as it guarantees local preparedness in case the
official security architecture fail to counter insurgents and transnational
bandits.This is a response to development within a Nigeria state that is
perceived to be incapable or unwilling to secure internal security and protects
law abiding citizens from free for all reign of terror by bandits Leaders of South West especially the
state governors deserve commendation on this tactical deployment.Great leaders
are those who foresee and pre-plan for uncertain eventualities.In an era
of  unpredictability,those who survive have wider vision, and near precise
analysis of events that are yet to happen.This is another golden example of
‘Ajise bi Oyo…’ It is equally sacrosanct to repeat
what the South West governors said at the launching of the security outfit.
Governor Kayode Fayemi with a PhD in War Studies stated as follows: “Amotekun is a complement that will
give our people confidence that they are being looked after by those they
elected into office.So, we do not want this to create fear in the mind of
anybody, as we are not creating a regional police force, and are fully aware of
the steps we must take to have the state police. “We do not want anybody to
misconstrue the concept of Amotekun.It was in the context of the unfortunate
development that we lost the daughter of Pa Rueben Fasanranti, the leader of
Afenifere.And that further put pressure on us, as leaders in the Southwest, to do
something about insecurity. “As elected leaders, our primary
responsibility, according to Section 14 (2) of the Nigerian Constitution 1999
as amended, is the security and welfare of citizens.That was what informed the
governors coming together to fashion out a way to complement the work of the
mainstream security agencies overstretched in their efforts to arrest the
menace that have afflicted the entire country” ,he clarified. That clarification implies the
commitment and loyalty of South West leaders to the supreme constitution and
integrity of the republic. Amotekun is thus a smart creation designed to fill
gaps and secure the lives and properties of Yorubas.It is not a regional armed
force,nor a regional police.It will function within the existing official
security structures, though manned by many retired security personnel from the
region. It is gratifying to note that Yoruba
leaders, even amidst recriminations over the statusquo, are still able to hold
out a flag of preparedness for all possibilities. It is therefore a really
interesting, and intriguing reading how leaders of other regions are grappling
to respond to this innovative but potent step. It must  (dawn) on all that Yorubas are not ‘cowards’
afterall. Olawale Rasheed,publisher of Sahel
Standard, writes from Abuja.His email: iwogoke@gmail.com