By Danlami Nmodu Former Governor of Lagos State,Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has
expressed his conviction that  President
Muhammadu Buhari will  not stay in office
beyond 2023. Tinubu who made  his
view known  while addressing the State
House Press Corps Tuesday at the Presidential Villa said he believes
Buhari’s  words distancing himself from
the third term plot. The former  governor
who is also a national leader of the All Progressives Congress, APC said he
knows Buhari has the character and the experience to resist such temptation
even if anybody suggested it to him. Tinubu recalled that 
himself along with Buhari had been in the trench  resisting a plot for third term by a
former  President, a reference to the
failed  plot by President Olusegun
Obasanjo to extend his tenure. According to the former governor, “Any
reasonable politician, who had worked with President Muhammadu Buhari will know
that he will not (tamper with the Constitution). Distractors are always
suspicious and will make accusations, but I was in the trench, in the struggle
for democracy. “I was in the trench and in the
opposition, with Muhammadu Buhari, till the third term agenda of a former
leader of this country failed. I know he (Buhari)  will never (embrace such plot). He has the
courage and the character to refuse such a temptation even if offered to him. I
believe in him and I believe Nigerians should also believe in him. “He doesn’t need to say it to me,
I’ll argue it in the corner and everywhere they bring such a thing up. However,
it’s very good to hear it from him. I say congratulations to a man of character
and integrity. The challenge of turning the ship of this nation around is a
continuum and a continuous effort and that is what we should get ourselves
concerned with. “Yes, politics is intoxicating, it’s
flamboyant, it’s interesting, but we cannot continue in perpetuity one after
the other, we have to relax, show concern for the people of the country and see
to the efforts of the President that will manifest in the new, united and
prosperous country. We are still not there. The APC chieftain also played down talks about clamour for zoning  zoning of the Presidency ahead of the next general elections.When asked to speak on the agitation by  several   zones to produce the 2023 president, Tinubu said it was too early.According to him, the party had just won an election and that it was better to allow  it address the issue of governance. Speaking on 2023, Tinubu said, “That
time is not now. We have just finished one election and Mr President is busy
sorting out the Budget, working for the people of this country. Of course,
restlessness of politics is going to be there, but any lover of this country
will not talk about the succession plan yet. That’s the truth. Concentrate on
working for the country, help the President to help the country. There’s
nothing more than that. “We cannot use 365 days in a year
and 360° to work on politics, it’s not possible. Anybody talking about that now
is just completely restless and not focused on the agenda of nation building
and development of our country.” He also said President Buhari’s  “new year message resonated very well; he
showed concern about the security and the understanding that the economy is
still a challenge, but it’s a work in progress, you’ll have to continue to work
on it and make it better for the common man. That’s the meat of the message.” Speaking on his trip to the
Presidential Villa, Tinubu said, “It’s a new decade, a visit to the leader of
my country is necessary to look at things and wish him well in the office for
this new decade and make some points on the stability, security and a number of
issues around the country.