A community leader in Otun-Ekiti, Ekiti, Mr Nathaniel Abidoye, has urged members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) in the area to exercise caution and obey road traffic rules and regulations while driving. Bamidele, the Olu-Ode of Otun-Ekiti, gave the advice during a sensitisation programme organised by the NURTW branch in Otun-Ekiti, Moba Local Government Area of Ekiti, on Saturday. According to him, the charge became necessary in ensuring safety on the roads and achieving accident-free Christmas and New Year celebrations. Bamidele implored the union officials to check members from engaging in unwarranted and arbitrary increase in transport fares, especially during the coming festivities. “We are all aware of the increase in the volume of traffic, especially very common in the last three months of every year. “After committing our operations in the hands of God with prayers we should also be cautions of our attitude and behaviour while using the road. “Most major accidents are as a result of human factors and it is better for us to stay alive to celebrate than to be dead and buried due to avoidable errors,” he said. Mr Jacob Atolagbe, the NURTW branch Chairman, said the seminar was organised to educate members on their responsibility in adherence to laid-down road safety rules and regulations. He said the event, aside from achieving reduction in road crashes, was also organised to educate members on the need for them to abide by various government measures and directives on COVID-19. According to him, the sensitisation became imperative for members and officials to guard against flouting the COVID-19 protocol while discharging their operations. Atolagbe described the union as an integral part of the socio-economic development of the nation, saying that every member and officials must play the roles expected of them diligently and effectively. He also charged members of the union to always cooperate with security agencies in ensuring safe, smooth and uninterrupted vehicular movement at all times. Mr Bayo Alowonle, Executive Director, Safe Motoring, in a lecture, urged the union members to always be abreast of the condition of their vehicles before embarking on any journey. Alowonle urged the members, especially commercial drivers to eschew speed, dangerous driving, overloading, dangerous overtaking and non-regard for other road users while driving. “Unnecessary rush can create unbearable calamities not only to ourselves but to other road users and should be greatly avoided. “We don’t need to engage in verbal war with colleagues or law enforcement officers while on the road so as not cause unnecessary obstruction to other road users,” he said. He advised the union members to ensure prompt updating of their vehicle particulars and regular medical checks to ascertain their fitness, especially the eyes. Mr John Olakitan, a member of NURTW, described the sensitisation as very timely, beneficial and highly impacting. (NAN)