The Executive Secretary, Nigeria Christians Pilgrims Commission (NCPC), Rev. Yakubu Pam, on Saturday charged Nigerian youths to rise up and complement government’s efforts at addressing the challenges facing the country. Pam gave the charge in Abuja, while playing host to the National Youths Council of Nigeria (NYCN) and the Coalition of Ethnic Youths Leaders of Nigeria (CEYLON). He stressed that the youths must take up responsibilities and prepare for nation building, while urging them to channel their grievances and embrace dialogue for peaceful resolution. The NCPC boss stated that the best way to achieving peace was through dialogue, and the only way to build a great nation, is for all ethnic groups to come together and discuss issues affecting the unity of the country. Sukubo Sara-Igbe, President, NYCN, said that because the yet-to-be identified hoodlums that hijacked the #EndSARS protests were largely young people, this had convinced the council that the national youth constituency needed to band together to find lasting solutions to issues. ”We are using this opportunity to appeal for cease fire on any form of action that can escalate the tension in the country, as we continue to encourage dialogue. We believe that what is needed is a de-escalation and peacebuilding strategy owned and operated by all critical stakeholders, particularly the youths. ”While we encourage government to focus on ongoing reforms, stop abusive police practices, ensure justice for all victims and overhaul the nation’s security and law enforcement architecture, ”We believe that we, as the young people of Nigeria, must be allowed to contribute our own quota towards proffering and implementing solutions to national challenges. We (therefore) wish to announce to government, at all levels, that we are set to hold the first National Youth Peace Conference in Abuja in the first quarter of 2021”, the NYCN president said. According to him, the conference will bring together youth from different backgrounds, to discuss the roles of young people in the present circumstances of the country. ”It will also proffer workable solutions for implementation by government and every critical stakeholder in the Nigeria project. ”Local and international friendly youth organizations shall also participate at the event. We have a country to build and we can only achieve this, if we work together,” he said. (NAN)