The National Executive Committee (NEC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has approved a six-month extension for the Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extraordinary National Convention Planning Committee.   The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the NEC also approved the dissolution of the party structures at the ward, state and national levels.    Kaduna State Governor Nasir El-Rufa’i who confirmed these developments when he briefed State House correspondents on the outcome of the meeting, said  NEC also approved the expulsion of former National Vice Chairman of the party in the South-South, Ntufam Hilliard-Eta. He explained that Hilliard-Eta was dismissed from the party for refusing to withdraw the court case he instituted against the caretaker committee.   El-Rufa’i, who briefed the correspondents alongside Governor Hope Uzodinma of Imo, and his Ondo counterpart, Rotimi Akeredolu, condemned the recent call for the resignation of President Muhammadu Buhari by the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) over security challenges in some parts of the country. (NAN) Alhaji Abdulmalik Zubairu, a Chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Zamfara, has commended the National Caretaker Committee of the party led by Gov. Mai Mala Buni of Yobe for reviving the party. Zubairu, who represented Maru/Bungudu federal constituency of Zamfara from 2015 to 2019, made the commendation in… November 11, 2020 In "News" The All Progressives Congress (APC) says its Caretaker and Extra-ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) is focused on conducting a national convention to usher in a new National Working Committee (NWC) for it. Mr Yekini Nabena, the party’s Deputy National Publicity Secretary, said in a statement on Sunday in Abuja that… November 8, 2020 In "News" Chief Whip of the Senate and  former Governor of Abia State,  Senator Orji Uzor Kalu has  urged All Progressives Congress (APC), National Executive Council (NEC) to extend the tenure of the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led APC Caretaker Committee to March 2021 . In a statement signed by Kunle Oyewumi of… August 24, 2020 In "Featured"