By
 Adeniyi  M. Wale Yusuf
Abubakar Yusuf, a serving senator from Taraba Central is the Chairman of the
Senate Committee on Special Duties. But the lawmaker did not appear to have
been pleased with a committee many would regard as an afterthought, just to
accommodate one of the ‘boys.’ Senator Yusuf wanted the Chairmanship of the
Senate committee on Banking, Insurance and Other Financial Institutions, which
is currently headed by the Senator representing Kaduna Central, Uba Sani. Although
he could not get to be picked as chairman of the committee, Yusuf lobbied
desperately to be included in the committee on banking. He did not do so
because he wanted to make good laws that would impact the country’s financial
system. No! Yusuf was desperate because he had seen an opportunity he could exploit
to personal benefit. His
wife Maryam, is one of the top guns at the Nigerian Incentive-Based Risk
Sharing System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL), and one of those who could
move up to the position of the Managing Director/CEO of NIRSAL when the current
holder, Aliyu Abdulhameed   ends his tenure by December this year. Senator
Yusuf, who holds a master’s in economics, knew that his wife would be in
contention for the top office by end of the year and he wanted to be in a
position of influence to tilt things towards his wife. Yusuf
must have known, or his wife must have informed him that the current MD/CEO of
NIRSAL, is entitled to a tenure renewal and could be a stumbling block to the
aspiration of his wife. Not only had Abdulhameed performed well, but insiders
believe he has been able steer NIRSAL towards sustainability over the past four
years having pioneered NIRSAL from ground zero to become a household name in
not only Nigeria but across Africa. But
the senator is determined to clear the way for his wife, no matter what stands
in the path and even if it means bringing down the institution to prove that
the current management is incompetent and corrupt. It
is not surprising that some online media reports attacking the integrity of the
management of NIRSAL have thus emerged. The reports have accused the management
of embezzlement of funds and general mismanagement without any evidence of
malfeasance beyond dropping names of their targets. One of such reports alleged
that the management misappropriated a whopping N342 million Anchor Borrowers
Fund released by the CBN, when the said fund was still in the custody of the
Central Bank of Nigeria. According
to insiders, other falsehood  sponsored against NIRSAL to give the
management an unfavorable public perception includes allegations that children
of the MD are the sole contractors of NIRSAL and that the company does not keep
proper record of income and expenditure. The attacks went on for too long last
year, forcing the management of the institution to write rejoinders to correct
the misinformation. In
a statement around October last year, Anne Inugba, Head, Corporate
Communications stated: “Over the past few weeks, there has been an
intensification of longstanding attacks against NIRSAL and its current management
by entrenched interests and other hostile elements who do not mean well for the
country. “The
obvious objective of the campaign is to halt the momentum of progress that
NIRSAL, working with public and private sector partners, is making in transforming
the Nigerian agricultural economy in order to boost productivity, food security
and the welfare of the teeming millions of smallholder farmers around the
country. …The attacks are also characterized by desperate effort to distort and
misrepresent NIRSAL’ mandate, role and achievements.” Perhaps,
not surprising, these reports were celebrated by the senator who, allegedly
gleefully shared them among his colleagues in the committee in order to spread
disinformation to achieve his aim. Of course, the objective is to sway the
committee towards taking a hardline posture against NIRSAL that would culminate
into a senate resolution against the management or get the committee to pass
vote of no confidence on the management. Once
he can get that done, the first hurdle would have been crossed-Abdulhameed
would have no chance to return. Of course, it would then be easier for him to
lobby for his darling wife to take over and have family control on NIRSAL! Yusuf
is an economist, having acquired a master’s degree in economics and he would
certainly have ideas of his own on how to run NIRSAL. But if the details of his
interest in the institution offer any indication, it is that his motives are
far from patriotic. At
an interactive session organized for the senate committee on banking and others
by NIRSAL in December last year, Yusuf was quite outstanding in his
contribution. A source who attended the meeting said out of the nine senators
who attended, only Yusuf did not make suggestions for operational improvements.
Other senators, including the Chairman of the committee, Uba Sani, made
valuable suggestions on how NIRSAL could further grow the nation’s agriculture
sector. But
Yusuf used the occasion to ask questions about the operations of the
organizations. Interestingly, the questions the senator asked were along the
lines of the sponsored publications. He wanted to know whether NIRSAL
activities fall under legislative control or under the Company and Allied
Matters Act (C.A.M.A).  Despite not sure whether the organization was
a PLC or not, the senator went on to request information on operational income,
profit and terms of its credit guarantees. “NIRSAL
is a plc and all those documents are filed with the Corporate Affairs
Commission and they were not things he should be asking,” said a source in the
committee who added that the chairman had to caution over his line of enquiry. Barely
a month after responding to sponsored reports against the organization, Inugba
had to speak out again following another round of attacks. She wrote: “It
has come to our notice that some persons and groups who claim to be
stakeholders or participants in various agricultural projects are currently
orchestrating a vicious and well-funded campaign of disinformation and
blackmail against NIRSAL. “In
an effort to invest their bogus claims with invented credibility, these
elements have been making the rounds of media houses with false claims that
NIRSAL-itself a CBN entity-is holding up funds released by CBN under the Anchor
Borrowers Programme.” The
ambitious senator would certainly do what he wants do to achieve his family’s
objective. It is an opportunity too tempting to let go for a man who suddenly
found himself among high society players through politics. Prior to becoming a
Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, he was an ICON Limited Officer, he
later worked at the Ministry of Finance where he was a Planning Officer. He
thereafter became a Graduate Assistant at the University of Maiduguri and later
got promoted to the position of Assistant Lecturer.