 As part of its digital banking
strategy, Polaris Bank recently introduced its Agency Banking Solution to serve
as a vehicle to reach the unbanked and underbanked, as well as
deepen financial inclusion across Nigeria. The Polaris Agency banking solution known
as “SurePadi” is designed to provide convenient and easy access to funds
and other banking services in far-flung neighbourhoods, through partnerships
with existing and new retail outlets. Research shows that lack of accessible
financial service points is a key factor responsible for Nigeria’s high financial exclusion
rate. According to the Chief Digital
Officer of Polaris Bank, Mr. Dele Adeyinka, “The introduction of SurePadi is in
line with our plan to deepen financial inclusion by serving the huge unbanked
and underbanked population especially in locations where basic banking services
are far from reach.” Mr. Adeyinka further stated that:
“With Nigeria’s financial exclusion rate currently at 36.8 percent according to
CBN, the goal of achieving 20 percent this year to close the exclusion gap of
16.8 percent is also a factor driving our SurePadi Banking Solution.” “The SurePadi banking solution is
also one of the ways we are helping to reduce unemployment in the country
because when you sign up an agent, one of the benefits is that it provides a
means of earning additional disposable income,” he added. Agency banking service is a
convenient way of providing limited banking services to customers through the
use of Agents who usually are non-traditional bankers or banking businesses. Services offered by SurePadi include;
account opening, funds transfer, deposit funds; cash withdrawals, bills
payment, airtime top up amongst other services. SurePadi Agents earn additional
income in addition to improved status in the community through brand
affiliation with Polaris Bank. Customers on the other hand will
enjoy the convenience and ease that comes with the service, plus low cost of
transacting as they are able to save the cost of transportation to banks; they
are also able to  access funds  anytime of the day, beyond banking
hours (weekends and public holidays). A SurePadi Agent can be a registered
business such as Limited Liability Company, sole proprietorship, partnership,
cooperative society, a large retail distribution network, petrol filling
stations (Preferably one with a Supermarket or Store) and dealers in FMCG. In
addition, unregistered businesses or individuals including supermarkets, retail
outlets, and distributors of mobile network operators, business centers,
boutiques, provision shops, and sport viewing centers also qualify to be a
SurePadi Agents. Customers wishing to become Polaris
SurePadi Agents, are advised to visit the nearest Polaris Bank branch with a
passport photograph and a valid means of identification: driver’s license;
national identity card, International passport or voters’ card and utility bill
(Not less than three (3) months from time of presentation). Polaris Bank is a future-determining
Bank committed to the delivery of industry-defining products, and services,
across all the sectors of the Nigerian economy.