The
Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC on February 10, 2020, arraigned
the former Attorney General of the Federation, Mohammed Bello Adoke and
Abubakar Aliyu for the second time on a seven-count charge, bordering on money
laundering, bribery and abuse of office before Justice Binta Nyako of the
Federal High Court, to which they pleaded not guilty. The
alleged crimes for which the defendants are being prosecuted have to do with
the Oil Prospecting License (OPL) 245, involving Shell and Eni. Adoke
was picked up at the airport upon arrival from United Arab Emirates on December
19, 2019, and was arraigned on a 42-count charge at the FCT High Court,
Gwagwalada presided over by Justice Kutigi. In
today’s arraignment, prosecution counsel, Bala Sanga, told the court that there
was an amended charge of January 14, which was filed on January 15, 2020, and
he thereafter applied that the charge be read to the defendants for their pleas
to be taken. The
defendants pleaded not guilty when the charges. Sanga prayed the court to
remand them in the custody of Nigeria Correctional Service pending the
determination of their bail applications. The
defence counsel Mike Ozekhome, however, told the court that there was an
application filed February 4, 2020, and was duly served on the prosecution,
which he said was supported by a six- paragraph affidavit, and 12 exhibits and
a written address containing six grounds upon which the defendant should be
granted bail and on liberal terms, which include self-recognition as a former
attorney general of the federation, noting also that the applicant was on bail,
earlier granted him by Justice Kutigi of FCT High Court. Ozekhome
argued that the first defendant has no criminal records and is currently ill
and receiving medical attention in a government hospital close to the EFCC Head
Office, Jabi. The
defence counsel further pleaded that the defendant be granted bail to attend to
his hailing health or instead be remanded in the custody of the EFCC. Justice
Binta Nyako granted the defendants bail in the same term and conditions granted
them by Justice Kutigi, which the defendants fulfilled and regained their
liberty. She
adjourned the matter until April 1 and 2, 2020.