 UPDATE: Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has condemned “the passing of a bill seeking to give leaders of federal and state legislatures immunity from prosecution for corruption.” Responding to the development, SERAP deputy director Kolawole
Oluwadare said: “Providing immunity for presiding officers against crimes of
corruption is tantamount to ripping up the constitution. It’s a blatant assault
on the rule of law and breach of public trust.” SERAP said: “The leadership of the House of Representatives must
immediately withdraw this obnoxious bill. We will vigorously challenge this
impunity.” The statement read in part: “It’s a huge setback for the rule of
law that the same privileged and powerful leaders of parliament that regularly
make laws that consign ordinary, powerless Nigerians to prison for even trivial
offences yet again want to establish elite immunity to protect themselves from
any consequences for serious crimes of corruption and money laundering.” “Whereas countries like Guatemala has voted unanimously to strip
their president of immunity from prosecution for corruption our own lawmakers
are moving in the opposite direction.” “The message seems to be that in Nigeria, powerful and influential
actors must not be and are not subject to the rule of law. It’s simply not
proper for lawmakers to be the chief advocates of immunity for corruption.” “It’s a form of political corruption for the parliamentarians to
abuse their legislative powers, intended for use in the public interest but
instead for personal advantage. This is an unacceptable proposition as it gives
the impression that both the principal officers of the National Assembly are
above the law.” “If the House of Representatives should have their way, this will
rob Nigerians of their rights to accountable government.” “Public officials who are genuinely committed to the well-being of
the state and its people, and to the estab­lishment of an effective and functioning
system of administration of jus­tice, should have absolutely nothing to fear.”