In response to both local and international
reactions, expressing concerns about the recent killings of Christians in
Nigeria by the Boko Haram insurgent group, President Muhammadu Buhari has once again
resorted to the comparison of casualty figures suffered by ‘’both sides’’ in
Nigeria’s never ending internal wars. Featured as a guest writer on the ‘’Speaking
Out column’’ of the Christianity Today magazine, one of America’s most
influential evangelical periodicals, President Buhari wrote, ‘’indeed, it is
the reality that some 90 per cent of all Boko Haram’s victims have been Muslims:
they include a copycat abduction of over 100 Muslim school girls along with
their single Christian class mates; shootings inside mosques; and the murder of
two prominent imams. ’’ This latest intervention from President
Buhari follows a disturbingly familiar pattern of reminding members of a
grieving ethno-geographic or religious demography to take solace in the fact
that the demography of their perceived adversaries has recorded higher numbers
of deaths than them in the human slaughter slab that Nigeria has become under
his watch. President Buhari had made a similar comparison when he paid a
condolence visit to Taraba state in May 2018 in the wake of the so-called
farmers/herders clashes that claimed the lives of many. On that occasion,
President Buhari told his grieving hosts that the predominantly Hausa/Fulani
ethnic Zamfara state has recorded more death from murderous activities of cross
border bandits than they and the people of Benue state have recorded from
marauding killer herdsmen. In each of these instances, President
Buhari’s habitual comparisons of human tragedy of numbers is an effort at living
in denial of the gradual quacking of the Nigerian state along its ethno-geographic
and religious fault lines. And by consistently living in denial of the obvious
ethnic and religious underpinnings of Nigeria’s complex web of complicated
security challenges President Buhari conveniently abdicates his responsibility
as a commander in chief who does not fully appreciate his special part in this
plot of an unfolding tragedy. President Buhari, an ethnic Fulani Muslim that is
leading a multi-ethnic and religious country such as Nigeria at a time of
heightened insecurity arising mainly from the twin scourges of marauding killer
herdsmen and Boko Haram insurgency, owes it a national duty to the rest of
Nigeria to decisively deal with these two security challenges that are closely
linked to his ethnicity and religion. His failure to do this thus far,
especially with his security architecture dominated by his Muslim northern
section of the country impresses upon the rest of Nigeria a perception that
President Buhari is uncaring if not complacent in the face of worsening
insecurity. Therefore, his claim that 90 per cent of the Boko Haram insurgency
victims are Muslims is an insensitive misrepresentation of the situation, which
deflects from the reality emerging trend since 2015. President Buhari’s unsolicited devil’s
advocacy for the Boko Haram insurgents is a lethargic response with potentials
at underestimating the mid-term strategic destabilization objective of the
terror group through a sectarian crisis induced implosion of the Nigerian
state. The pledge of allegiance by the Abubakar Shekau led Boko Haram insurgent
group to the Islamic State of Iraq and Levant, ISIL, marked a turning point in
the course of the insurgency. Its allegiance to ISIL required of Boko Haram to
henceforth abide strictly by the Islamic rules of war engagements, which forbids
the spilling of Muslim blood. To this end, the indiscriminate bombing of
Mosques, markets, city centres, sacking of towns and villages wherein a single
Muslim casualty could be recorded is prohibited. The exceptions to this rule
are Muslim members of Nigeria’s security forces, C-JTF volunteers, and local
and international aid workers. It was the refusal of Abubakar Shekau to abide
by this directive as he won’t recognize anyone as a Muslim except members of
his sect that resulted into a split in the ranks of Boko Haram insurgents. Under the leadership of Abu Musab
al-Barnawi, a splinter group of fighters who are willing to strictly abide by
the Islamic rules war engagements, which forbids the killing of fellow Muslims,
emerged under the banner of Islamic State of West Africa Province, ISWAP. The
emergence of ISWAP has since altered the equation on ground in the theatre of
war in favour this well trained and funded group of professional fighters as
seen in their dare the devil attacks on hard targets of Nigeria’s security
forces. Whereas, the Abu Shekau faction of Boko Haram continuously attacks every
soft target irrespective of ethnicity of creed, however, it’s heavily
diminished ranks of fighters has substantially reduced its lethal capabilities. With its full incorporation into the
international network of global Jihadi terror groups, ISWAP has emerged a
formidable fighting force with a military strategy that aims to decimate
Nigeria’s security forces in the North east theatre of war. Its strict adherence
to the Islamic rules of war engagements, which has seen it avoid killing of
unarmed fellow Muslims, has greatly enhanced its legitimacy among some sections
of the predominantly Muslim native population of Adamawa, Borno and Yobe
States, North East Nigeria. President Buhari’s recounting of the abduction of
the over 100 Dapchi Muslim school girls and their ‘’one’’ Christian counterpart
to justify his ‘’90 per cent’’ hypothesis is only one half of the story. The
other half of the story is that whereas, all the other Muslim girls were
returned in line with their strict adherence to the Islamic rules of war
engagement, Leah Sharibu, the lone Christian school girl remains in the
captivity of ISWAP. As it turned out, the Dapchi school girls’ abduction was a
freak show staged by ISWAP to demonstrate their reformed modus operandi. The resurgence of the Boko Haram insurgency
in recent times has been as a result of ISWAP’s operational strategy, which
focuses on hard targets of Nigeria’s security forces avoiding soft targets.
This is has enriched its ranks with men and material resources with a
corresponding dwindling cooperation from communities no longer feeling
threatened by ISWAP to government forces. Boko Haram is not Islamic but it is Muslim
and its ultimate goal is to pull down Nigeria’s current secular constitutional
democratic order and replace it with an Islamic state theocracy. Boko Haram is
not Islamic because Islam is a divinely guided empire of faith and not a
religion that can be confined to a physical geographic state under the guidance
of self-appointed potentates. And Boko Haram is said to be Muslim because the armed
struggle for the establishment of an Islamic state theocracy is an aspiration
that is shared by the mainstream Muslim community in Nigeria, having falling
under the doctrinal influence of radical Islamic theology as espoused by
ancient empire builders to give religious sanction to their self-seeking
worldly agenda. Having successfully distinguished itself as a non-aggressive to
Muslims Jihadi group, ISWAP is set to plunge Nigeria into a full scale
sectarian war by now carrying out targeted killing of Muslim’s favourite foe;
Christians. The now consistent pattern of abducting and
publicly executing Christians by ISWAP is part of a midterm strategy to lure
the mainstream Muslim community in Nigeria into conflagrated sectarian crisis
with its Christian brethren. A full blown sectarian war between its Muslim and Christian
communities in Nigeria will weaken the Nigerian state to the advantage of ISWAP
and enhance its chances of meeting its goal of an Islamic state over its
spheres of influence. It is no coincidence that both the laity and clergy of
the Christian community in Nigeria have come under serious attack by ISWAP. Already
the on-going but needless sparring between the Christian Association of
Nigeria, CAN and the Buhari administration on one hand and between them and the
Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs, NSCIA on the other hand over the
recent protest of the killing of Christians by church leaders, which has
unfortunately degenerated into a headcount of death per denomination, reads
like a plot from the play book of ISWAP. In the face of this unfolding reality, it
will no longer serve the collective interests of Nigerians for President Buhari
and the leadership of the Muslim community in Nigeria to continue to live in
denial of ISWAP’s targeted killing of Christians. To avert this impending
catastrophe is for President Buhari to quit his unhelpful platitudes and
urgently initiate a process of national reconciliation towards absolute
national unity. A nation at war with itself cannot defeat a common enemy such
as ISWAP. This is the time for the Muslim community in Nigeria to demonstrate
love, empathy, solidarity, understanding and support to their Brethren
Christian compatriots that have come under targeted killings by ISWAP.