The Executive Vice Chairman and
Chief Executive (EVC/CE) of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC),
Prof. Umar Danbatta, has stated that telecommunications remains the best
enabler in expanding the frontiers of financial inclusion in Nigeria. Danbatta
affirmed this on Wednesday
(05/02/2020) at the NCC Head Office while receiving a team from the Bill and
Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF) and the Foundation’s Consultants, Glenbrooks Partners,
who paid a visit to the Commission to explore opportunities for collaboration
and partnership to enhance financial inclusion in Nigeria. At the
meeting, which held at the request of the Foundation, Danbatta said the
realisation of the centrality of telecommunication to all aspects of the
economy explains NCC’s upbeat in identifying access gaps and in instituting
processes for the expansion of telecom infrastructure across the country. The
EVC said the infrastructure companies (Infracos) have been licensed by the
Commission to cascade fibre from landing ports to the hinterland of Nigeria,
especially the 774 local government areas in Nigeria. He expressed hope that
the Federal Government will take a concrete position soon to enable the
Infracos to commence operations because “fibre is the real solution to the
volume of transactions in the financial services sector”. Danbatta
declared that 35 million Nigerians have no access to telecommunications
services and by implication,they lack access to digital financial services, a
condition that undermines financial inclusion. According to the EVC, this
challenge is caused by inadequacy of both wireless and fibre connectivity
infrastructure. “We need to do more investment in both fixed and wireless
infrastructure to enable us to reach our target of at least 80 percent level of
financial inclusion in about four years”, he emphasised. The
EVC said access to telecom services by distant, isolated, unserved and
underserved communities will enable more citizens to embrace digital financial
culture. Danbatta revealed that the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has issued
Mobile Money Payment Services license to some mobile network operators to
enable them to undertake mobile financial transaction services. Danbatta therefore
advocated renewed greater cooperation and collaboration between the banking and
telecommunications sectors to harmonise the cost of transactions for financial
services in an equitable manner. Abiodun
Jagun of Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation who led the delegation comprising
Elizabeth Mcquerry of Glenbrook Partners as well as Ifeanyi Monye and Charles
Ifedi, who are consultants to Glenbrook, informed the EVC that the Foundation
requested for the meeting in other to deepen the extant the nership between the
Foundation and the Federal Government of Nigeria to increase citizens’ access
to financial resources. Jagun
said the discussion with the Commission is so important because it regulates
the telecom sector and it is already addressing some infrastructure challenges
which is central to connectivity and the embrace of digital culture and
inclusive access to financial resources by citizens. She
(Jagun) said that understanding the strides made by the Commission, as well as
the challenges it faces, will help the Foundation to know the nature of
collaboration and support to offer without distorting or disrupting the market.
Jagun said the beauty of the visit and the discussions are meant to ensure that
the philanthropic opportunities offered by BMGF are supportive and
complementary to the digital ecosystem. Mcquerry
also commended the commitment of the Federal Government to expanding access to
digital resources. She also expressed hope that this commitment will trickle
down to find implementation among all agencies of government. Mcquerry equally
appealed to all stakeholders to work in synergy to ensure increased access and
affordability of digital and financial services by “people at the bottom
of the bottom of the pyramid.”