Mr. Bisi Kazeem, 
fsi,,Corps Commander, Public Education Officer, FRSC has clarified what he
called the   misconceptions and misrepresentations
regarding the alleged involvement of its personnel in the unfortunate crash that
occurred on 1st February, 2020 within RS11.31 Ogbomoso general operation area
of the Corps. The crash involved a
Toyota Hiace with registration number (AA 396 RBC) and an unregistered
(Jincheng) motorcycle overloaded with 3 pillions whose video lately dominated
the social media sphere. Kazeem note in a
statement that “When the news of the crash first came to the knowledge of the
Corps, the Corps Marshal, Dr Boboye Oyeyemi immediately directed the
constitution of an investigative panel to ascertain the true cause and severity
of the crash. At the end of its investigation, the panel came up with the
following discoveries which have been verified to be the main fact about the
unfortunate incident. “The summary of the investigation
is that, the patrol team alleged to have caused the crash did not at anytime
chase after the vehicle; neither did they chase the bike in question. The point
is, and still remains that the team was actually detailed on patrol operations
on that route on the day of the unfortunate incident, carrying out their
legitimate duty until an emergency call came through from a senior staff of
Parrot FM who reported a lone crash that had occurred along Ogbomoso-Odo Oba
road involving a tanker that fell on the highway. “Being an organization
that places much value to saving lives and creating a safer motoring
environment and as part of its corporate obligation to respond to crashes
within five minutes, the team immediately rushed down to the crash scene to carry
out rescue services. “While on their way to
the crash scene, they met a crash in which they eventually evacuated two
critically injured persons to the hospital while leaving one of our 
personnel to  a ensure the safety of the
vehicle and properties therein with a lone corpse from the crash. “While it is gratifying
to state  clearly  at this point that the Corps is deeply saddened
over the unfortunate incident, especially the attendant loss of lives and
damage to properties that the crash brought upon the innocent victims and their
families. It is pertinent to note that the Federal Road Safety Corps is not in
the practice of chasing after vehicles as the Corps has its professional ethics
guiding the conduct of its personnel on patrol operations. Kazeem further added
that “For emphasis, the Corps is still committed to achieving its corporate
mandate of eradicating road traffic crashes and creating a safer motoring
environment in compliance with global best practices and rules of engagement.
As such members of the public are called to always hearken  to established
traffic laws and obey law enforcement agents on the road and stop attacking
them each time they are on emergency rescue . “As a Corps, we are
unrepentantly committed to entrenching safety on our roads through applicable
safety standards and will admonish the general public to always see what they
can do to contribute to save lives on our roads rather than engage in
destructive criticism.”