 The Minister of State, Ministry of
Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Omotayo Alasoadura has called for peace and
dialogue to address issues giving rise to conflicts, agitations and youth
restiveness in the Region. The Minister made this plea, when he
paid a courtesy visit to the Executive Governor of Abia State, who was
represented by the Deputy Governor, Sir Ude Oko Chukwu at the Government House
at Umuahia, Abia State, on Monday February 17th, 2020. Alasoadura said that the purpose of
the visit to Abia State is to sensitize and ensure peace, development and
tranquility in the Niger Delta region, hence the people should let peace
be supreme and charged the State government to also carry the people along. In a related development, Sen.
Alasoadura also visited the people of Ukwa-West Local Government Area of Abia
State, an oil producing area during the sensitization on Peace
and Security Enlightenment programme, he stressed on the need to take
deliberate steps to maintain peace and security in their various communities. He advised the people on
the necessity to wean themselves from full dependence on Oil and Gas to other
means of more sustainable livelihood such as agriculture and other vocations. In his remarks the Permanent
Secretary of the Ministry, Mr. Olusade Adesola said it is the continuous
desire of the Federal Government to promote dialogue and community based
approach towards attaining peace for sustainable development of the region,
that the implementation of this colloquium has been sustained. Olusade stated that the programme is
intended at providing a platform for interactions between Government and the
people at the grassroots with a view to giving them a listening ear and
understanding their concerns, hence the theme “Dialogue, A Panacea
for Peace and Development.” He commended the people of Ukwa –
west community for their peaceful co- existence and maintaining peace and
security in the region. Earlier, the Deputy Governor of
Abia state, Sir Ude Oko Chukwu expressed his gratitude to the Ministry on the
Sensitization programme organised on peace and security in the region. Sir Ude, pleaded with the Ministry
and the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) to complete the ongoing
projects in the State so that it can benefit the people. Speaking further, he appealed to the
Youths and Traditional rulers to be positive about the development and
participate fully in the programme so that at the end the essence of creating
the Ministry will be achieved. In his welcome address, Hon. Chief
Sylvanus Nwaji stated that under the able leadership of the Governor, the
youths have been engaged in meaningful and sustainable ventures, especially
Small Medium Entrepreneurs (SMES) in order to gainfully engage the Youths and
maintain peace and security within the area. He called on the Ministry to
urgently look into the uncompleted projects and complete them as it will
benefit the people especially the Niger Delta Housing Estate in Ukwa- west
Local Government Area to help curb the bunkering activities along the region. 