 Lagos
State Government has raised its level of response to Coronavirus (COVID-19)
incident, following a reported case of a patient diagnosed with the infectious
viral disease in the State in the early hours of Friday. This is coming, just
as the Chief Incident Commander and the State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu,
allayed fears of residents on spread of the virus. The
Governor also offered more information on how the patient was identified and
efforts currently being made to prevent the spread of the virus. The
patient, Sanwo-Olu said, is an Ogun State-based expatriate who flew into Lagos
from Milan in Italy via Istanbul, Turkey last Monday evening. The Governor said
the patient, whose name was not disclosed, remained in stable condition at the
bio-security facility in Yaba, Lagos Mainland, where he is being isolated. It
was gathered that the patient, although, tested positive to COVID-19 virus, is
yet to show any respiratory symptoms at press time. He complained of fever and
body pain, which prompted his transfer from Ogun State to Lagos for advanced
medical investigation. Sanwo-Olu
said a number of persons, who had physical contact with the patient before the
virus was diagnosed, are being traced, while others are currently being
examined for possible symptoms. The
Governor shared these details during a first press conference held on Friday at
the State House in Marina to brief the public on the matter. Top State
officials at the conference included Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin
Abayomi, Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr. Gbenga Omotoso,
Commissioner for Agriculture, Hon. Gbolahan Lawal, Secretary to the State
Government, Mrs. Folashade Jaji and Director General of Lagos State Safety
Commission, Mr. Lanre Mojola. Sanwo-Olu
said there should be no cause for panic among Nigerians over the reported
COVID-19 incident, stressing that measures had been set in motion by the State
and Federal governments to contain the spread of the virus across the country.
He particularly allayed the fear of Lagos residents, saying the two
bio-security facilities in the State had the capability to contain the virus. He
said: “At 10pm on Thursday, I got a call from the Commissioner of Health, who
reported possible identification of patient with coronavirus in Ogun State.
Immediately, we triggered all levels of bio-security responses and containment
facilities. After series of laboratory examination, the patient was confirmed
to have tested positive to the virus in early hours of today (Friday) and we
immediately alerted the federal authorities, including the President and
everybody who needs to be aware. We are in constant touch with the company
where the patient was engaged. The management and personnel of the company have
been cooperative. “Health
workers and emergency officials are on the field to track all persons that had
physical contacts and interaction with the patient. Our bio-security facilities
have been fortified to continue any form of test and contain any other
potential case. We are in constant touch with the Federal Ministry of Health to
harmonise our response to the incident. For us in Lagos, we are doing anything
that needs to be done. The patient is stable and every health intervention required
is currently being given to him.” On
how the patient scaled through health screening at the Lagos airport without
being detected, Sanwo-Olu said investigation showed the virus did not manifest
in the patient at the time he passed through the airport. The incident, he
said, prompted the Government to immediately trigger advanced end-to-end
screening for passengers flying into Nigeria, especially from high-risk
countries. The
Governor said there would not be prohibition of public gatherings and regular
activities in Lagos despite the diagnosed case of COVID-19, pointing out that
such measure may give rise to needless panic among the general public. He said
the condition of the patient was not “highly contagious” at the moment, adding
that the State would only ban outdoor gatherings in the case of escalation in
person-to-person transmission of the virus. He
said: “It is only when there is a high level of escalation that the public can
be panicky and this is when we realise that it is getting to person-to-person
transmission. As we have said, this isolated case has been contained right from
the hospital where he was first admitted and the guesthouse he slept after his
arrival in Nigeria. It is when there is a person-to-person infection that we
can trigger another level of isolation and curtail public events where large
number of people can gather. I don’t think we have gotten to that level yet.” Sanwo-Olu
also cleared the air on why the patient was transferred to Lagos after the
incident was reported in Ogun State, saying the Federal Government only
established testing centres to prevent to coronavirus in States that have
international airports. Lagos, the Governor said, is the only State in the
Southwest that has testing centres. He said the State was also considered based
on its sophisticated bio-security facilities, which were established during the
outbreak of Ebola virus. Prof.
Abayomi explained how the diagnosis was carried out, following the patient’s
complaint of fever and body pain. He said the patient started to show signs of
illness on Wednesday afternoon, after which he was presented at the Ogun
State-based firm’s hospital where investigation began. He
said: “Investigation began at the hospital after the patient gave history of
his trip to Nigeria. The medical personnel at the company’s hospital kept the
patient in isolation overnight and contacted us at the bio-security in Lagos
for assistance. We immediately asked them to transfer the case to Lagos. The
patient was brought to our high-containment in Yaba on Thursday morning. “Immediately
the patient arrived, he was put in proper isolation and appropriate tests were
conducted on him. Within hours, we received signals that the laboratory tests
were showing signs of positivity. At that point, we informed the Federal
Minister of Health and Governor Sanwo-Olu, who is the Chief Incident Commander
in Lagos.” The
Health Commissioner said the patient was responding well under a supportive
therapy, saying efforts were on to identify all persons that had physical
contact with the patient to break the cycle of transmission. He
disclosed that the State remained prepared to contain potential spread of the
virus, observing that Lagos had wrapped up the capacity of its containment
facility to 80-bed as a result of the emergency funds released by the Governor. Prof.
Abayomi said more capabilities were being put in place by the State to deal
with increase number of cases. He said aggressive public awareness campaign was
going on to sensitise residents on hygiene and activities that can prevent the
spread of virus.