By Haruna Salami Despite the outrage and
condemnation that have greeted the menace of job sales, especially by the
Federal Character Commission, some agencies of government are bent on
frustrating the efforts of the Senate to get to the root of the problem. The chairman Senate
committee on Federal Character Commission and Intergovernmental Affairs,
Senator Danjuma La’ah (Kaduna south) and his committee have been trying to get
to the root of this ugly trend, but some agencies have refused to honour Senate
invitation and tender necessary documents. Senator La’ah told
Newsdiary Online Monday that he got reports from
different people regarding what the Federal Character Commission, FCC has been
doing. One of the reports La’ah
got says “appointment for sales is real, I just spoke to someone who
bought his own from NPA at N 3 million. The sellers are Federal Character
Commission. It shocked me. It makes my heart bleed and I’m so sad over it. I’m
going to take it tough with them if I find out that it is what they have been
doing. Honestly, the committee will never allow any stone unturned to prove to
the whole country that we are not taking it lightly with anyone”. “This issue has made
people coming out of schools without employment and some people are busy
collecting money to employ; does it make sense? It’s an embarrassment to the
whole society, an embarrassment to the government of Buhari. He said he wants everybody
to enjoy his administration, hundreds of thousands of unemployed graduates will
be given appointments, but some people are busy selling”. He vowed that if the
committee confirms they will “wear the same trousers” with the
perpetrators”, adding that his committee has been doing it’s best,
following the issue carefully to get to the root of the matter. In this direction, the
committee has been investigating some organisations which are requested to
forward, among other documents, their nominal rolls, but some of them have
failed to honour the committee’s invitation, using flimsy excuses. Some of the
organisations that failed to turn up are Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory
Agency, PPPRA, Nigerian College of Aviation Technology, NCAT, Zaria, NAFDAC,
Security Exchange Commission, SEC, FCE Zariaand Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria. The organisations that
have so far appeared before the committee are Nigerian Institute of Transport
Technology, NITT Zaria, National Eye Centre, Kaduna and Federal Neuro Psychiatric
Hospital, Zaria.