The Nigerian Army says its troops of
Operation Lafiya Dole (OPLD) have continued to neutralize more terrorists,
capture gun trucks and cache of arms in several encounters across North East. The Nigerian Army Operations Media
Coordinator, Col. Aminu Iliyasu, disclosed this on Wednesday in Abuja. Iliyasu said that the troops had
continued to sustain the ongoing counter terrorism operations, making life
unbearable for the marauding remnants of the Boko Haram/Islamic State’s West
African Province (ISWAP) criminals. He said that the troops of 25 Task Force
Brigade in conjunction with civilian JTF unleased superior fire power on some
ISWAP terrorists at Njaba along Damboa-Bale road on Sunday. According to him, several of the
insurgents were neutralised while others escaped with gunshot wounds at the end
of the encounter and one of the terrorists named Koise Bulama was captured
alive. “Items recovered from the terrorists
are; one Buffalo gun truck, one anti-aircraft gun, three machine guns, two AK47
rifles and 141 rounds of 12.7mm ammunition. “Others are one suicide vest, one
Improvised Explosive Device Box, 10 motorcycles, one pumping machine and some
mechanical tools. “On the same day, some elements of
Boko Haram suffered yet another defeat in the hands of troops of 121 Battalion
in Pulka, Gwoza LGA in a failed attempt to attack the troops location. “The dogged troops repelled the
attack and neutralised one insurgent in the process while others retreated in
disarray under the cover of darkness,’’ he said. Iliyasu further disclosed that
troops of 112 Task Force Battalion deployed at Ngwom in Mafa local government
also thwarted an attempt by the Boko Haram terrorists to infiltrate their
defensive location. He added that the troops neutralised
one of them while many of them escaped with various degrees of gunshot wound as
evident from the trails of blood discovered along the insurgents’ withdrawal
route. According to him, the troops
recovered one Baofeng Hand Held Radio, one Rocket Propelled Gun bomb, 101
rounds of 7.62mm NATO ammunition and two rounds of 60mm mortar bombs abandoned
by the escaping criminals. Iliyasu added that the troops of 212
Battalion deployed at Tungushe in Konduga local government area engaged some
Boko Haram terrorists mounted on six gun trucks and neutralised three of them. He said that one Buffalo gun truck,
one Anti-Aircraft gun, two AK-47 rifles, two AK 47 Rifle Magazines and 60
rounds of 7.62mm Special ammunition were captured from the insurgents after the
encounter. According to him, one gallant
soldier paid the supreme price during the encounter. “Similarly, on the same day, troops
of 3 Battalion (Main) deployed at Rann in Kala/Balge LGA of Borno State
delivered a devastating blow on some Boko Haram elements. “The insurgents attacked the troops’
location in 4 Gun Trucks alongside a number of their foot soldiers. “The vigilant troops responded
swiftly, engaging the criminals in a brief fire fight that lasted for about 20
minutes. “At the end of the encounter, the
heroic troops neutralized two of the criminal insurgents. “Equally, the troops captured one
General Purpose Machine Gun, one AK 47 Rifle, one Baofeng Hand Held Radio and
33 rounds of 7.62mm NATO ammunition. “It is also heart-warming to note
that, seven women and nine children held hostage by the criminals were rescued
while two Boko Haram flags, one motorcycle and one motorcycle engine were
recovered,” he said. Iliyasu also disclosed that the
troops also arrested 11 high profile Boko Haram/ISWAP logistics suppliers
within Biu local government area of the state. (NAN)