 By Chimezie Godfrey The
Group Managing Director, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation
(NNPC), Mele Kolo Kyari, has called on African countries to focus on
providing structures that will ensure energy security for their
citizens. He made the call in Abuja during the ongoing third edition of the Nigerian International Petroleum Summit (NIPS). Kyari told the gathering that his organization, NNPC, has a framework that works towards ensuring energy security in Nigeria. “African
countries must know that each must focus on building structures that
ensures energy security for the citizens. NNPC is committed to that and
has a framework to make sure that the needed energy is available for the
needs of the country,” he stated. The
national oil company boss acknowledged the global clamor for energy
transition from fossil fuels to renewable sources but, however, noted
that hydrocarbons will continue to form the larger part of the energy
mix in the foreseeable future. “Several
researches continue to confirm that by 2040, renewables will be
contributing about 20 percent of the global energy mix. This implies
that fossil fuels will still contribute at least 70 percent,” he said. He therefore urged African countries, which are still mostly underdeveloped, to continue to utilize the hydrocarbon resources available to them to develop energy sources for their populace. “The
focus must be in making sure that the energy is clean. We have to use
what we have. Today, oil is being found in unexpected places. “This
contributes to the growth of middle class consumers. And so demand of
fuel will continue with increase with population and prosperity. “Global demands will remain over 100 million barrels per day” he said. He
added that African countries should focus, not solely on the glamour
for renewables but largely on the need to deliver energy for the
development of their people. Also
speaking at the event, Chikezie Nwosu, Managing Director of Waltersmith
Petroman agreed that African countries have huge resource deposits, but
are very low on resource consumption and consequently, low Gross
Domestic Product (GDP) growth. He called on African countries to focus more on consumption against export. “The
key thing to do is to decarbonize fossil fuels. Africans must not focus
on selling commodities but on converting the hydrocarbons into
consumable products,” Nwosu stated. Nwosu
used the forum to announce that his company is building the needed
infrastructure that will convert fossil fuels’ feed stock into
consumable products. Also
speaking on the development of the gas sector for national economic
growth, Mrs. Audrey Joe-Ezigbo, President of the Nigerian Gas
Association noted that the power sector is the largest consumer of gas
in the country. The
power sector, however, she revealed, is “plagued by huge liquidity
issues”, asserting that such uncertainty is not attractive to new
investors and called for better commercial framework that will attract
more investors to develop the gas sector.