 One of the Leading private
Universities in Nigeria, Baze University, Abuja, has named versatile university
administrator, Dr. Mani Ibrahim Ahmad, as its new registrar following the
expiration of the tenure of erstwhile registrar, Major-General Inuwa Idris (Rtd).
In a related development, six faculty members of the university had earlier
been elevated to the revered professorial rank, following a rigorous
uncompromising internal and external assessments. Ahmad, 52, until recently the
university’s director of academic planning, emerged registrar after a scrutiny
of a list of candidates by the University’s Council and subsequently endorsed
by the Board of Trustees chaired by Former Vice-President of Nigeria, Architect
Mohammed Namadi Sambo (GCFR). The process of assessment of the
professors had begun months ago, through the usual stages of internal review by
their respective faculties, and the University’s Appointment and Promotions
Committee to confirm eligibility followed by external assessments by three different
subject matter experts, drawn from a list of six assessors who maybe located
anywhere in the world. University founder and
Pro-Chancellor, Senator Yusuf Datti Baba-Ahmed and the Vice-Chancellor, Prof.
Tahir Mamman, OON, SAN, had noted that the institutions commitment to
repositioning its processes and standards is an ongoing exercise and will be
sustained for the good of quality education in Nigeria, and the African
continent. “We will be consistent in ensuring
we continue the pathway we have created for sound quality tertiary education in
the country, through the provision of first class environment and facilities,
as well as high quality faculty and human resources” Senator Baba-Ahmed noted
specifically. “Our drive to position Baze
University as one of the best universities in Nigeria and even beyond is a
continuous one, and we appreciate the benefits of quality human capacity to
pursue this drive” Prof. Mamman added, stressing “the former registrar played
his part, and Dr. Ahmad is stepping in, towards a higher pedestal. I
congratulate them all, including our new crop of professors following their
successes in the usually prolonged and rigorous assessment process” The new registrar, Dr. Ahmad holds a
PhD in Ecology and Environmental studies, while the new faculty members who
stepped into the professorial rank are Emeka Ene (Financial Accounting),
Sylvester Ekiyo (Computer Science), Pauline E. Onyeukwu (Business Management),
Hindu J. Amin (Marketing), Nurudeen Tanko (Engineering) and Abiodun Adeniyi
(Mass Communication).