 Lagos
State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu has called for the creation and boosting of
new sources of export in Nigeria’s bid to meet the yearning and aspiration of
Nigerians just as he demanded a fair and just revenue sharing formula. Speaking
through his Deputy, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat at the opening ceremony of the
Federations Accounts Allocation Committee’s Retreat being hosted by Lagos
State, he declared: “We must do everything within our power to create and boost
new sources of export, especially along the lines of value-added agriculture
and manufacturing’’. He
urged State Governments to “explore ways of reducing dependency on what comes
from the federation account on monthly basis by adopting creative and
innovative strategies to boost IGR’’. While
calling for innovative strategies by State Governments in the area of
internally generated revenue, the Governor called for “a new fair and just
revenue-sharing formula for federation revenues’’. He
added “there is actually a correlation between an appropriate revenue formula
and the ability of federating units to achieve a meaningful diversification and
sustainable growth in IGR’’. Declaring
further that Lagos deserves a special status funding, Sanwo-Olu said “Lagos
shoulders a heavy burden, which if not properly discharged poses great danger
to the attainment of our national economic growth aspirations’’. He
stated that Lagos needs help if it is to be able to meet the challenges of half
a million people migrating into Lagos daily. According
to the Governor, the new revenue formula should take cognisance of population
density in addition to nominal population while also increasing Lagos’s Share
of VAT. He decried Lagos getting 10% of VAT while contributing 55% as
equitable. Speaking
earlier, the Minister of Finance, Budget & National Planning, Hajia Zainab
Shamsuna Ahmed while praising the synergy between the federal and all other
tiers of government urge States to consider IGR as a critical instrument of
funding by blocking leakages and ensure effective and efficient collection of
revenue. She
further stated that the introduction of State’s Fiscal Transparency,
Accountability and Sustainability (SFIAS) in partnership with World Bank was to
strengthen fiscal discipline and financial stability. She added that a regime
of peer learning will help States in revenue drive. While
acknowledging States’ interest and efforts to meet the eligibility criteria and
conditions for Disbursement Linked Indicators, the Minister said States will
soon benefit from the grants. She
further explained that the Federal Government is committed to achieving a
revenue to GDP rate 15% in the medium term adding that there will be efforts to
improve investment in agriculture and industry as well as curtail imports. In
his welcome address, Benue State Commissioner of Finance who is also the
Chairman, Forum of Commissioners of Finance, Hon David Olofu described the
retreat as a training for all new members. He
noted that the retreats theme, Efficient Federation Revenue Allocation as a
Nexus for Economic Diversification is a pointer to the “need for a
synchronised consistent and sustained effort at all levels to diversify the
economy and provide opportunities for our people’’.