 President Muhammadu Buhari Tuesday in Addis
Ababa, Ethiopia, declared that his administration is fully determined to combat
and defeat all acts of criminality, banditry and terrorism in the country. Speaking at a meeting with the Executive
Committee members of the Nigerian Community in Ethiopia (NICE), the President
appealed to all Nigerians to support and cooperate with security agencies, who
are ready to defend and preserve the unity of the country. The meeting, moderated by Chairman/CEO of Nigerians
in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM), Hon. Abike Dabiri-Erewa, had observed a minute
silence in honour of Nigerians brutally killed by Boko Haram terrorists on
Monday in Borno State. Regarding the insecurity in parts of the
country, President Buhari assured Nigerians, at home and abroad, that their
protection would continue to remain a key priority of his administration, as
well as fighting corruption and bringing prosperity to Nigerians. On economic matters and doing business in
Ethiopia, the Nigerian leader said he had been briefed on the challenges faced
by some Nigerian companies with investments in the country, especially the
Dangote Group and Lubcon. ”I have directed the relevant ministries
to take up these issue with a view to resolving all complaints amicably with
the Ethiopian authorities,” he said. On the issue of Diaspora voting, the
President while responding to a request by the leader of NICE, David Omozuafoh,
said he was in support of it, but legislation was required to make it a
reality. ”I have said it severally that I am not
against it. However, you will need to convince National Assembly to amend the
relevant laws to make Diaspora voting a reality,” he said. On the conduct of Nigerians living in the
Diaspora, the President expressed concern that some of their actions have not
projected the country in good light, urging them to change their ways and obey
the laws of their countries of residence. He, however, commended Nigerians in Ethiopia,
noting that they had the highest concentration of professionals working in
international organizations such as the African Union, United Nations agencies. ”This is a correct representation of the
Nigerian spirit of excellence and high achievement,” he stressed. President Buhari told the meeting that his
government is committed to supporting  and
protecting all law-abiding Nigerians, at home and abroad, to prosper, urging
all in the Diaspora to help achieve this by being good citizens and worthy
ambassadors of Nigeria. The President also encouraged them to be
the best in all their legitimate engagements in their host country, reminding
them: ”while you are out in the Diaspora, do not forget home as you represent
some of the best human assets that Nigeria possesses.” He, therefore, urged them to use their
resources, skills and talents to help the development of Nigeria. In his remarks at the meeting, Nigeria’s
Ambassador to Ethiopia and Permanent Representative to the AU, Bankole Adeoye,
extolled the huge investments of the Federal Government of Nigeria in Ethiopia
since independence through the Embassy. He described the Nigerian Embassy in Addis Ababa
as one of the Nigerian missions in the whole of Africa with the largest
diplomatic and residential premises. ”Nigeria has continued to live the saying
that Africa is the centerpiece of her foreign policy especially with the many
impacts in the AU, the United Nations Economic Community for Africa (UNECA) and
Ethiopia as whole,” he said. The Ambassador  commended President Buhari for reciprocating
the visit to Abuja of the former Prime Minister of Ethiopia given the country’s
zeal to develop stronger ties with Nigeria. He further extolled the President as one
who has appointed the highest number of career ambassadors and attributed it to
his flair for professionalism. Also speaking , the President of NICE
commended the President for the establishment of NiDCOM and his continuous
leadership and contributions which have cemented Nigeria’s role as a central
player in strengthening the AU. Omozuafoh appealed to the Nigerian
government to fast-track the implementation of the MoU with the United Nations
on the Junior Professionals Programme allowing young Nigerians access to
opportunities in international organizations. ”Similar opportunities should be explored
with the UN Volunteers Programme, the AU Volunteers Corps as well as the ECOWAS
Youth Volunteer Programme, ” he said. Garba Shehu Senior Special Assistant to the President (Media & Publicity)