Governor Babagana Umara Zulum of
Borno has visited  Diffa, Niger Republic
where he met about 120,000 refugees, who mostly hailed from local governments
in the northern part of Borno state. The refugees made up of men, women
and children fled from hundreds of communities attacked by Boko Haram
insurgents since 2014. Majority trekked distances to enter the neighboring
country in search of safety. The Governor’s visit to Niger was to
contribute in arranging modalities towards the safe and dignified repatriation
of the refugees to resettlement communities in Borno. About three weeks ago, Zulum had
hosted a high level meeting in Abuja, which had in attendance, were officials
from Nigeria’s federal ministries of foreign affairs, humanitarian affairs,
disaster management and social development; the national commission for
refugees, migrants and internally displaced persons and the national emergency
management agency to discuss repatriation of Borno citizens from Cameroon,
Niger and Chad. With that meeting in mind, Governor
Zulum travelled to Bosso, Garin Wanzam and Tumur, all in Diffa province, to
meet the refugees. Host Governor of Diffa, Isa Lameen led Zulum during the
visits. Speaker, Borno state assembly,  Abdulkarim Lawan who is from
northern part of Borno state, was also part of the trip. Governor Zulum traveled to Diffa
from Malam-Fatori, headquarters of Abadam local government in Northern Borno,
which had been a stronghold of Boko Haram insurgents, until it was recently
regained by the military. The visit to Malam-fatori, is the first time in more
than five years by a civilian, happened the same Saturday the Governor entered
Diffa province in Niger Republic. Zulum, while addressing top
officials, expressed his gratitude to government of Diffa province, the federal
government of Niger and and the host communities in the country for being
hospitable to Borno citizens. The Borno Governor was particularly
thankful to his host, Mr Lameen of Diffa province, for his empathy and
compassion towards Nigerian refugees from Borno.