By Haruna Salami Senate Public Accounts Committee, SPAC resumed its consideration of Auditor
General’s 2015 report on Tuesday with most of the agencies with audit queries
either absent or the head of such organisations represented by officers who are
not willing to provide useful documents to clear the queries. The Accountant General for the Federation who was to throw light on most of
the queries was represented by a director who was evidently  just making apologies and excuses. The chairman of the committee,  Senator Matthew Urhoghide said the
figures of the amount of money in the queries “are mind boggling”
adding that “the first line of the fight against corruption is the Auditor
General’s report which has to do with spending public funds”. Unfortunately,  two weeks into the the exercise the chairman lamented
that they have “not moved anywhere”due to the attitude of officials
of these agencies. He those present that “in the course of the 
investigation tempers will rise, but we are headed to the same thing: to move
the country forward”. On IPPIS, the chairman regretted that “Accountant General could not
bring financial statement, mandate and cheque books of personnel cost that
takes over 50% of the expenditure” adding  that “all the agencies
are not ready”. One of the agencies that was absent at Tuesday’s meeting without
representation is Nigeria Customs Service, NCS. It was found that six accounts
didn’t receive inflow by NCS in 2015 and no explanation was provided why that
was so.  Such accounts include Police Reward Fund,  10% Cocoa
Levy,  Service Charge Pool Account, IMPL Committee on FGN Landed Property,
Cheque Operational Account snd Monetization (Motor Vehicle Privatisation
Proceed Account. Nigeria Customs Service was to clear the query that “examination of
record of collection into Non-Federation Account by Nigeria Customs Service.
NCS revealed a net difference of N28,139,988,122.85 between amount collected
into Special Accounts by NCS and amount stated in the Trial Balance. The implication
is that the revenue record of the Accountant General understated by the above
amount”. In his response the Account General maintained that “the difference was
as a result of the cut off date between NCS and CBN, that Revenue and
Investment Department of Office of Auditor General of the Federation relied on
the balances from CBN’s bank statement “. The committee insisted that the Comptroller General of Nigeria Customs
Service, Account General of the Federation and other heads of government
agencies with audit queries must attend in person Wednesday to answer the query
in the presence of Auditor General of the Federation who wrote the report.