 By Chimezie Godfrey The Director General, National
Orientation Agency (NOA), Dr Garba Abari has said that the government has
stepped up surveillance against the entrance of coronavirus into the country. The DG made this assertion Tuesday
in Abuja during a media parley on the activities of the agency in the month of
January, 2020. He noted that in recent weeks there
was a scare around the world and in Nigeria over the outbreak of coronavirus, a
condition that has claimed many lives in a few countries, especially in China. “As you are aware our
government has to ensure that those coming from countries with high incidence
of the disease are properly checked before they are admitted into our country. “Government has also advised
our country men and women not to go to some of these countries for now unless
it is absolutely important. “The Nigerian Centre for
Disease control  (NDDC) has also issued several advisories on the virus. “These advisories are expected
to guide us in prevention, identifying the symptoms, general precaution and
treatment,” he said. On the efforts of the agency towards
curbing the spread of Lassa fever disease, Dr Abari disclosed that the agency
has been busy educating people on the scourge. He said,”You may notice that in
some Neighborhoods of Abuja during the weekend, our outdoor vans have been busy
spreading the gospel of prevention as the most potent way of stamping out Lassa
fever in Nigeria. “Directorate in our state
Directorates have been asked to take the campaign to the grassroots.” He added that the campaign is
targeted at cleanliness in the neighborhoods so that rodents that carry these
diseases do not have a field day. He also said that they are equipping
the Nigerians with the awareness to seek quick and proper medical remedy if
they see signs of the diseases. Dr Abari further pointed out that
the agency has formed partnership with a number of Health Agencies and Civil
Society Organizations to raise awareness on the eradication of hepatitis in
Nigeria. According to him, the World Health
Organization recorded about 27 million Nigerians are infected with the disease
but sadly, less than 20% of these people know their status. Speaking on the issue of border
closure, he said the policy has benefited the people, adding that Nigerians now
have the capacity to produce what they and eat what they produce. On issues of insecurity in the
country, he raised concern about the increased level of insecurity witnessed in
recent times. He however, gave the assurance that
government is not leaving any stone unturned to ensure that the lives and
properties of Nigerians are secured and the security challenges are tackled. “We are concerned by the rising
cases of killings around the country, it is actually worrisome that at this
period, the killing is targeted at both young and old, the religious and the
lay person. “We acknowledge the tension in
the country over security problems and hope that with all Nigerians, we will
find solutions to the problem. “Government is also concerned
about the situation. Recall that the President has met severally with the
service chiefs over the matter I believe soon, a comprehensive response will
come into operationalization,” he said. The DG revealed that in order to
curb the rising cases of banditry in some part of the country, government has
deployed the Airforce in addition to combat troops in the affected areas. He stressed that the insecurity
experienced in the country is not between Moslems and Christians but rather an
assault against the collective civilization of Nigerians. “Let me also emphasis that the
whole effort by enemies of our people is to pitch us against ourselves based on
religious and ethnic lines. “We should respond as a people.
What are we are experiencing now is not between Moslems and Christians, it is
an assault against our collective civilization,” he advised.