zainabsule@yahoo.com,
www.zainabokino.blogspot.com The
latest scandal in President Buhari’s crumbling governance structure is the open
squabble over schedule of duties between the National Security Adviser,
Mohammed Babagana Monguno and the all-powerful Chief of Staff, Abba Kyari, in a
series of scandals, controversies, and confusion that have dogged this
administration. This time, as it has been observed over time, it is a question
of who the service chiefs should report to and take orders from, between the
chief of staff and the National Security Adviser. A crisis does not consume a government in one day; it is always
in many folds, unravelling at different times and finally snowballing into a
conflagration capable of exposing—and possibly consuming it. The APC-led
government seems to be in that phase now. Just like
in the days of the PDP, which faced series of self-inflicted problems, so it is
today with the ruling APC.  The President Obasanjo- Vice President Atiku
quarrel during the PDP primaries of 2003, shook the party to its foundation but
when Obasanjo single-handedly picked Umaru Yar’adua as president and Goodluck
Jonathan as Vice president, the consequence of that irrational decision led to
Jonathan becoming president after the death of Yar’adua leading to Jonathan’s
mishandling of the affairs of the party and the country, and the final loss of
power to the opposition. But unlike the PDP government, which had in Obasanjo a hands-on leader,
with effective control of government and party machinery, in President Buhari,
there is no such control and the man himself is neither proactive nor
pragmatic. Thus, potshots are thrown at each other by those in government and
at the party level without anybody calling them to order. Now, the party is in
disarray, governance suffers, while the nation’s ship is rudderless and being
wrecked slowly. I imagine
the emotions of those in line to take over from the service chiefs who have
either attained the compulsory age of retirement or have spent mandatory 35
years in service according to service rules and extant laws, but have remained
in office after the renewal of their terms. The idea of retirement is for
others to climb the ladder of progression, but in the current dispensation,
once appointed, you stay put forever, while others murmur within the confines
of their homes. In over
20 years of democratic rule, no service chief has ever completed four whole
years with an elected president, not to talk of a renewal of terms over and
over. However,
with a Buhari presidency, where anything goes, and without a standard
procedure, the current service chiefs would go down in history as the longest
serving set of service chiefs. The story is also the same with some ministers
who have been in government since inception even though some have performed so
poorly. Therefore,
when Premium Times, in an exclusive story, exposed General Monguno’s leaked
memo complaining about the usurpation of his powers by Abba Kyari, it was a
confirmation of what had been public knowledge and discussed in hushed voices
over the years. But because the government can’t be bothered about public
opinion, not even the protest calling for the sack of the same service chiefs,
has been responded to except an advisory. As comatose as things are at the highest echelon, so it is at the
ruling party hierarchy and other facets of our national life. The APC
national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole has been in the eye of the storm
for months over his mismanagement of the affairs of the party and his knack to
curry trouble. The erstwhile populist labour activist has become a persona non
grata even in his home state of Edo and at the party headquarters, where he
presides. The groundswell of opposition against him is so much, he could not go
to his state without being protected by the army, even as protests were
organized calling on him to resign. This
week, his trouble was further ignited from the headquarters of the Progressive
Governors’ Forum, which described him (Oshiomhole) as “intolerant” and
“incompetent” noting further that “APC is not a functional political party”.
Saliu Lukman, the Director General of the forum accused the NWC of the APC
under Osiomhole as a “very efficient Trojan horse that opens the backdoor for
electoral victory to our political opponents”. Thus the hard-talking critic and
activist is now a drowning man, hinging his survival on the president who is
neither talking to warrying parties in the “fight” nor acting well to save his
party and the man he supported to emerge as chairman. The civil
service is not immune from the incompetence of the government, contrary to the
expectation of the electorate who gave Buhari massive support especially in
2015. A recent report by Daily Trust on the grounding of the Federal Character
Commission is heart-breaking. The FCC is said to be operating with only one
commissioner (who is the acting chairman) out of the 37 that should be in place
at any particular time and contrary to the Federal Character Act. The 36 other
members (now out of the commission) are said to have served their tenures or
retired. For God’s sake, what does it take to make political appointments among
the millions that voted for the president? Is it not absurd that among these
voters, the president could only appoint those he knows, as he himself
admitted? Intentionally or inadvertently, this anomaly at the FCC has since
engendered another problem of employments to MDAs without recourse to spread,
balance, fairness and equity. As a matter of fact, employments at MDAs are
allegedly being sold to the highest bidders. The jobs are hardly advertised,
and even when they do, to fulfil all righteousness, letters of appointment are
discreetly issued to those who can afford to pay. In the past it was about
having the right connection; now you need the connection and the cash. Meanwhile, according to the 1999 Constitution, sections 14 and
153, the FCC is mandated to “work out an equitable formula, subject to the
approval of the National Assembly, for distribution of all cadres of posts in
the public service of the federation and of the states, the Armed forces of the
Federation, the Nigeria Police Force, other government security agencies and
government-owned companies/parastatals of the states” among other provisions
bordering on “principle of proportional sharing of all bureaucratic, economic,
and political posts”. So, after
feigning ignorance and pretending all was well,  the APC hierarchy finally
accepted our existential threat, that is that Nigeria is the third most
terrorized country in the world and Boko Haram is very much alive and thriving
and not technically defeated, the same way the “progressives” have come to the
realization that their party is “not functional”. Lies have short lifespan no
matter how colourfully coated. This is what party and government supporters are
just coming to terms with. Not even during the military era did we witness this
level of degeneration in governance and administration, yet no government in
Nigeria had been reposed with trust like the Buhari government. The APC
government like its predecessor, the PDP, would soon realise that taking
people for granted has a price, and of course consequences; and that propaganda
has its limit. The government needs to be more sensitive to the yearnings and
aspirations of the citizens, otherwise the day of reckoning might come sooner
than expected.