– Warns against opening
strange emails, using pirated software – We have instituted Cyber
Security Incidence Response Team (CSIRT) – Danbatta The Minister of
Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami, has re-stated
that the Federal Government is irrevocably committed to strengthening
cybersecurity in the country. Pantami gave this assurance
today (13/02/2020) while delivering a keynote address at the Annual Cyber
Security Conference organised by the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC)
at the Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja. The conference with the
theme, “Strengthening the Security and Resilience of the Nation’s
Communications Infrastructure” was attended by representatives from
Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) of government, telecom companies,
Information and Communication Technology (ICT) organisations, cyber security
experts as well  as representatives of institutions and agencies in the security
governance sector and other relevant stakeholders. According to the Minister,
the volume of money being lost to cyber criminals globally explained the 
government’s commitment to securing the country’s national telecommunications
infrastructure through necessary technical, legal and policy initiatives. Pantami affirmed that the
National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy (NDEPS) unveiled by President
Buhari on November 28, 2019, is aimed at deepening access to digital services
for a more efficiently and effectively run economy. Accordingly, the Minister
said the sixth of the eight pillars of the NDEPS thematically focused on ‘Soft
Infrastructure’ is conceptualized to improve the cyber security architecture in
the country. “This Conference by the
NCC is, therefore, fitting, as it aligns with the digital economy agenda of the
government. So, as we deepen access to digital services in the country, I have
to say that people need to know that once they are online, they are exposed to
risks. For instance, just opening an email that you are not sure of the sender
exposes your system and data to risks. Also, using pirated software should be
avoided and we must update our software regularly to avoid being target of
cyber criminals,” Pantami said. Speaking earlier, Prof. Umar
Danbatta, Executive Vice Chairman, NCC, said the maiden annual cyber security
summit is in recognition speaks to the importance and centrality of
collaborative efforts in the advancement of cyber security measures to provide
precautions and protection of critical communications Infrastructure. According to Danbatta,
“the event was designed to provide a platform for discussion on developing
a joint coordination for incidence response for the communication industry,
introducing cyber insurance, bridging the cyber workforce gap, strengthening
national cooperation, exchange of information, and development of comprehensive
strategies that will address the cyber security challenges confronting the
communications industry in Nigeria.” The EVC stated that in
addressing cybercrimes and boosting cyber security, technical measures and
appropriate legal instruments must be put in place to enhance the resilience
and integrity of ICT infrastructure and also to safeguard our activities in the
cyberspace. While restating the
Commission’s efforts towards ensuring that the Internet is safer to use,
Danbatta emphasized the role of education to mitigate the negative impacts of
cybercrime. The EVC highlighted the measures being taken by the Commission as follows: – Collaboration with relevant
stakeholders to embark on a nationwide cyber security awareness. – Establishmet of a Cyber
Security Incidence Response Team (CSIRT) Centre. – Collaboration with relevant
security agencies in the development of the National Cyber Security Policy; – Development of Technical
Framework for the Use of Social Media Network in Nigeria. – Development of contents for
consumer awareness and collaboration with stakeholders on the development of
Data Privacy and Protection Act; and – Carrying out a
comprehensive risk and vulnerability assessment of the communications
infrastructure and the industry. The EVC also informed the
audience at the conference that the Commission will soon commence a
multi-stakeholder process for the development of an Industry Wide Obligation of
Minimum Cyber Security Provisions which will apply to all operators. The plenary session of the
conference was followed with four panel discussions focused on: Developing a
Joint Coordination for Incidence Response for the Communications Industry;
Developing Cyber Insurance Product Stream: Barriers and Incentives; and Regulating
Cyber Security Service Provision; and Bridging the Cyber Workforce Gap.