The Nigerian
Communications Commission (NCC) has been applauded for its efforts in ensuring
effective regulations aimed at protecting the rights and interests of consumers
of telecom services as well on its efforts in promoting the provision of
improved services at fair and affordable prices to Nigerians. The commendation
came from the Management of Jaiz Bank, Nigeria’s first Islamic non-interest
commercial bank, which paid a familisation visit to the Commission (NCC) to
seek areas of collaboration between the two corporate entities. Speaking during
the visit on Thursday (27/02/2020), Hassan Usman, the Chief Executive Officer
of the Bank, said while Nigeria has not reached the promised land of telecom
regulation, the “NCC deserves commendation for its efforts in consistently
ensuring regulatory efforts that have now made telecoms services more
affordable to majority of Nigerians, a reality that can easily be benchmarked
against what is happening in other countries.” Usman also
affirmed that the fact that ICT had become crucial to the development of every
sector of the economy with positive multiplier effects in the life of every
business and Nigerian, is the reason NCC deserves commendations. The Jaiz Bank
CEO equally noted that because banks currently rely on broadband Internet to
provide efficient and effective services through seamless connectivity for
intra and inter-banking services provision, the Commission’s efforts in further
deepening access to seamless broadband connectivity to businesses and
individuals have been of tremendous benefit to Jaiz Bank. Speaking about
the bank’ operations, Usman said it remains the first Islamic commercial bank
established by the Federal Government to operate on a non-interest business
model, which makes it different from conventional banks that charge interest in
every area of its transaction. He said the bank
was committed to supporting individuals, the public and private sector to
attain financial goals through loans for mortgage, supporting start-ups as well
as those in real estate businesses. Overall, Usman said the significant role
NCC plays and does well, necessitated the visit to the Commission to see how
NCC and its staff can work with Jaiz Bank to derive banking benefits from Jaiz
Bank financial services. Responding,
Yakubu Gontor, Director, Finance Services, NCC, who received the bank’s team on
behalf of Prof. Umar Danbatta, the Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, thanked the
Bank’s Management for its recognition of the regulatory role of the NCC in
deepening access to broadband, which has enhanced promotion of digital
financial inclusion in the country. Gontor noted
that, though the Commission, like other Ministries, Departments and Agencies
(MDAs), now remits directly to the Treasury Single Account (TSA) domiciled with
the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), is paid from the TSA by the CBN as directed
by the Federal Government. Gontor, however,
called on the Bank to patronise the staff of the Commission to open accounts
since its has enticing packages at low interest rates to support mortgaging and
loans. Gontor also tasked the Staff Cooperative of NCC to leverage on the
opportunities at Jaiz Bank to source funding to build its proposed Staff Estate
at Lugbe.