A soldier in the Nigerian Army –
Corporal Ibrahim Auta NA07NA2672 of the 266 Light Battalion accused of
brutalising Khadijat Umar, a staff of Abuja Electricity Distribution Plc.
(AEDC), is currently assisting the Mararaba Division of the Nigeria Police to
unravel the circumstances that led him to physically assault her and inflict a
deep cut on her head of Kadijat Umar is a Marketer with AEDC. Disturbed by the increasing spate of
attacks on its workers, AEDC Management has directed its Legal Department to
speedily institute a civil suit and pursue criminal proceedings against the
Army Corporal, Customs Officer and three other persons who had in the last few
weeks assaulted AEDC staff in order to serve as a deterrent to others. According to eye witness accounts,
which was corroborated by Corporal Ibrahim Auta, Khadijat Umar was on a house
to house routine revenue recovery exercise with other colleagues when they
found out that the house where Corporal Auta lives which was earlier
disconnected had been reconnected. Upon interrogation at the Police Station,
Corporal Ibrahim Auta admitted that the AEDC team came to his place and upon
their arrival, his attention was drawn to their presence in his neighbourhood.
When he came out, he saw that AEDC ladder was resting on the electric pole in
front of his house. According to him, there ensured an argument over the issue
of illegal reconnection and the decision of the AEDC staff to disconnect his
house for outstanding debt and illegal reconnection. Corporal Ibrahim Auta
admitted slapping Khadijat Umar. Some AEDC staff who were also at the
scene of the incident reported that Corporal Ibrahim Auta brutalized their
colleague by flogging her with his army belt. According to them, when they
arrived at Corporal Ibrahim Auta’s house, they saw that it had been reconnected
though by records, the house ought to be under disconnection. Rather than
produce his evidence of payment, Corporal Ibrahim Auta entered his house, came
out with his Army belt and flogged Khadijat Umar. Responding to the incident, the
MD/CEO stated that “in the last few weeks, AEDC has seen a sudden increase in
serious assault occasioning harm visited on its staff. This is unacceptable to
us as a business entity. We owe our workers the duty to provide protection for
them in the course of doing their lawful work. We are currently working with
the relevant security agents to ensure that those involved in this disdainful
conduct including (i) Mr. Iliyasu Ayuba, the Customs Officer who used a service
weapon to threaten our staff in Minna and forced them to reconnect him even
when he is owing a huge debt, (ii) Army Corporal Ibrahim Auta who conducted
himself in a manner contrary to service rules and regulations by beating up a
harmless woman, and (iii) the old man that wielded two machetes against AEDC
Staff whilst going about their lawful duties are brought to justice”. In their separate reactions, the FCT
Chairman of the National Union of Electricity Employees (NUEE) – Comrade
Godfrey Abah and the FCT Branch President of the Senior Staff Association of
Electricity & Allied Companies (SSAEAC) – Comrade Leticia Ejendu have also
said the two labour unions may be constrained to ask their members to withdraw
their service and stop working in locations where any of them is attacked.
“Reports from our various members have shown an increase in attacks on our
staff. These attacks are unlawful, unwarranted and provocative. Our members
cannot work round the clock to provide electricity only for them to be beaten
up and severely injured by some few misguided elements in the society when we
go back to request payment for the services rendered. We have told management
that if in future this is allowed to happen again, our workers will have to
take appropriate lawful steps to protect themselves.”