The Headquarters 82 Division Nigerian
Army is set to host the Nigerian Army Lieutenant to Captain Practical Promotion
Examination (LCPPE) 2020 in its Area of Responsibility. Colonel Aliyu Yusuf,
deputy directo,r Army Public Relations 82 Division who disclosed this in a
press release, also said it  is in line with Nigerian Army Forecast of Event
2020 which scheduled the Promotion Examination from 10 – 15 February 2020. About 121 candidates (Lieutenants)
will be expected to participate and be tested in various categories which
include Physical/Medical Fitness, Map Reading, Tactics, Low Intensity
Conflicts, Communications, French Language, Skill at Arms and Staff Duties at
different staging areas. The Examination is aimed at evaluating the
intellectual ability of the candidates as well as to improve on their knowledge
and capability in the discharge of their professional duties and ultimately
serve as an assessment for promotion to the rank of Captain. Also expected during the conduct of
the Examination are representatives from the Department of Army Training and
Operations, team of observers from Army Headquarter (AHQ), members of the
Examination Panel and Directing Staff (DS) drawn from formations and units of
the Nigerian Army as well as supporting staff from 82 Division. As it is customary,
the Commander Training and Doctrine Command (TRADOC) NA, who is the Exam
President will address the candidates and the Examination panel at the
Headquarters 82 Division Auditorium on Sunday                  9 February 2020 by 1:00 PM before
the commencement of the exercise. Additionally, candidates and Officials will be
conveyed in military escort to the selected staging areas within Enugu and
adjoining environment during the period of the examination. Therefore, members
of the public are hereby advised not to panic on seeing movement of troops and
military equipment from 10 ­­- 15 February 2020 within Enugu State. You are
please requested to detail your media crew to cover the Exam
President/Commander TRADOC brief as stated above and kindly disseminate this
information through your various medium to the public. Thank you for your usual
cooperation.