In the aftermath of the Police counter-terrorism
operations which successfully neutralized the operational bases of the Ansaru
Terrorists’ Group and bandits, one Haruna Basullube  – one of the most wanted kidnappers/cattle
rustlers in the country and one Bashir Leta  – another notorious bandits’ commander were
killed. DCP Frank Mba, Force Public Relations Officer who
disclosed this in a statement Thursday also revealed  that one Mallam Abba  – Commander of Boko Haram camp in Kuduru
Forest and one Mofa – a notorious kidnapper were critically injured. The Force Spokesman also added that  as mop-up operations continue, the
Inspector-General of Police, IGP M.A. Adamu, mni  has deployed crack detectives and special
forensic investigators from the Force Headquarters to expedite investigations
into the broad criminal enterprise of the group and their associates. In spite of the successes of the operation, one
Inspector Muhammed Abubakar attached to the Police Special Forces regrettably
died as a result of injuries sustained in the heat of the combat. Thirteen
other officers (made up of 2 SPs, 1 DSP, 4 Inspectors and 6 Sergeants)
including the Pilot and Co-pilot of the Police helicopter, sustained different
degrees of injuries and are currently receiving treatment. Mba said the late Inspector Muhammed Abubakar was
one of the finest officers of the Police Special Forces with vast training and
operational background, both at home and abroad. He was among the pioneer set
of the Police Special Forces trained in Belarus. Born on July 8, 1985, he was enlisted
into the Nigeria Police on June 1, 2008 as a Constable and rose to the rank of
Inspector of Police before his untimely death. As a member of the Special
Forces, he participated in several successful Police operations and joint
missions with the military in the fight against insurgency both in and outside
the North-eastern part of the country. While condoling with the family, friends, and
professional colleagues of the late officer, the IGP restated the commitment of
the Force to the safety of its personnel and the nation. Some of the exhibits recovered by the Police
during the operation include 11 AK47 rifles, 730 rounds of live AK47
ammunition, 152 rounds of GPMG ammunition in two chains, 13 pairs of military
camouflage uniforms, 2 cartons and 48 sachets of tramadol, four facemasks,
phones and other electronic gadgets which are currently subject of forensic
investigations. Meanwhile, citizens living in and around Birnin-Gwari axis of Kaduna State have been enjoined to be on the lookout for fleeing bandits especially those with bullet wounds and report every suspicious behavior to the Police. (Source: Police Press release)