Justice
Okon Abang of Federal High Court, Abuja has adjourned the trial of Gabriel
Suswam, a former Benue State governor until February 25, 2020. The
Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC is prosecuting Suswam and the
Commissioner for Finance in his administration, Omadachi Okolobia on money
laundering charges to the tune of N3.1billion. They are alleged to have
conspired to launder money, belonging to the state government through the
engagement of Abubakar Umar, a bureau de change operator and owner of Fanffash
Resources. At
the resumed hearing on February 12, 2020, Umar, the fourth prosecution witness,
PW4, under cross-examination
by Paul Erokoro, SAN, counsel for the second defendant was asked if he took the money to the former governor in his
Kubwa, Abuja residence. Umar,
however, insisted as earlier
stated in previous hearings that: “I told the court that I took the money to Suswam in Maitama and I don’t know
any statement of taking money to Suswam’s house in Kubwa.” Further
probing him on his earlier statement, Erokoro, insisted that the witness made the statement before
Justice A.R. Mohammed of a
Federal High Court, Abuja, while he was still presiding over the fraud trial of
Suswam and Okolobia. Erokoro
quoted Umar to have at the previous trial, said: “When I saw the alert, I
changed the money equivalent to dollars and took it to Suswam’s house in
Kubwa”. Counsel
for the EFCC, Rotimi Jacobs, SAN, however, raised objections to the line of
questioning by Erokoro, insisting that the witness never said what Erokoro
claimed he said before Justice Mohammed. “The entire statement is not the testimony
of the witness before Justice Mohammed,” Jacobs argued. Erokoro,
however, maintained that he was merely quoting the records of the proceedings
under Justice Mohammed, arguing further that it could only have been the
witness being quoted by the former trial judge. He thus urged the court to “allow the question as the court is bound by the printed words in the
records of proceedings which is presumed to be correct”. Justice
Abang, thereafter, allowed the question “in the interest of justice” stating that he could not make findings on issues arising from a
document that was
not before the court. In
an attempt to further make clarifications, Umar said: “All I told Justice Mohammed is that I took
the money to Government
House in Maitama and
not Kubwa. “Yes, I know I gave different versions of how I delivered
the money, but it wasn’t any of the defendants, and nobody told me about Kubwa and I know
I took the money to Maitama.” Erokoro, afterwards, tendered the certified true copies, (CTC) of the records of proceedings before Justice
Mohammed, which was admitted
in evidence. The
case was thereafter, adjourned
till February 25 and 26, March 24 and 26, 2020.