A Federal High Court, Abuja, has
issued a bench warrant for the arrest of a Principal Manager with the National
Identity Management Commission (NIMC), Ms. Jamila Ahmad Muhammed, for failure
to appear in court over allegations of corruption. Muhammed and a former
Director-General of the Security and Exchange Commission (SEC), Mounir Gwarzo,
are being prosecuted by the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related
Offences Commission (ICPC) over their complicity in N12.8 million contract
scams. Gwarzo is facing a 6-count charge
bordering on abuse of office for awarding several contracts to Outbound
Investment Limited, a private company where he doubled as a Director even while
he was DG of SEC. On her own part, Ms. Muhammed, as
director of Outlook Communication Limited, is facing an 8-count charge of
gratification and abuse of office for running a private company while in the
employment of the federal government, as her company was awarded contracts to
the tune of N4, 372, 080 by SEC. According to ICPC, their actions
were contrary to Sections 12 and 19 of the Corrupt Practices and Other Related
Offences Act, 2000, and punishable under the same sections. Details from the charge sheet
revealed that the former SEC boss, between December 2016 and March 2017,
allegedly awarded contracts for the supply of 12 units of air-conditioners, 16,
000 litres of diesel and four units of refrigerators at the total cost of N8,
454, 000 to his own company. The air-conditioners and
refrigerators were to be supplied to the Lagos Zonal office of SEC at the cost
of N3, 499, 200, while a total of N4, 954, 400 was allegedly awarded for the
supply of diesel to the headquarters on two occasions in February and March,
2017 respectively. Ms. Muhammed’s offences according to
the charge sheet included allegedly receiving N4, 372, 080 contracts through
her company, for the production of radio jingles on E-Dividend for broadcast in
the three northern zones of the country, including N1, 080, 000 for the
production of the same jingles in Hausa and Pidgin languages. The arraignment of both accused
persons was slated for Tuesday 18th February, 2020 before Justice O. A. Adeniyi, but for the
absence of Ms. Muhammed, who was said to be sick and on admission at the
National Hospital, Abuja. Her counsel, S. M. Yusuf, told the
court, “The second defendant is sick. I confirmed from people close to her that
she is in National Hospital.” The counsel to ICPC, George Lawal,
while responding to the argument prayed the court to issue a bench warrant on
the accused maintaining that there was no medical report to back the claim of
ill-health by her counsel. Justice Adeniyi, after listening to
both counsel, ruled that Ms. Muhammed should be arrested immediately and kept
in ICPC custody. He then adjourned the matter to 5th March, 2020.