By Chimezie Godfrey The Public Account Committee (PAC)
of the Federal House of Representatives has summoned the appearance of the
Minister of science and technology and the permanent secretary before the
parliament on Tuesday next week over  non submission of audited accounts
of the Nigeria Natural Medicine Development Agency. The Chairman, (PAC), Hon. Oluwole
Oke on Friday in Abuja, made the ruling at ongoing Public Hearing on the
“Need to Investigate the Deliberate and Reckless Refusal by Non-Treasury
and partially funded Agencies to render their audited accounts from the period
of 2014 to 2018 to the Auditor General for the Federation. The Chairman pointed out that it was
necessary for the Minister of Science and Technology and Permanent secretary to
appear before the committee in  order to
unravel the issues going on with the agency and the reason for their
non-submission of audited account over the years. According to the Auditor General for
the Federation, Mr Anthony Ayine, the agency has never made any submission of
financial statements to his office. “Nigeria Natural Medicine Development
Agency, there is no evidence that they have ever submitted financial
statement,” the Auditor General said. However, the Director General/Chief
Executive, Nigeria Natural Medicine Development Agency (NNMDA), Samuel Oghene
Etatuvie said that the agency has rendered its audited accounts up to 2013. He gave reasons that they have not
been able to render the audited accounts of 2014 till date due the agency not
having adequate financial capacity, adding that they have been struggling all
these years. But Hon. Oluwole Oke, Chairman, PAC,
overruled the statement of the DG saying that it is not possible to use oral
defence to counter the facts of a written document. Oke decried the fact that the agency
which has been in existence since 1997 has no financial record with the office
of the Auditor General for the Federation. He also pointed out that the total
revenue  profile of this agency amounts up to on billion Naira and yet
they refused to be accountable to the Nigerian government. In the light of the foregoing, the
Public Account committee in its ruling ordered that  the DG should
reappear next week before the committee with the Minister of Science and
Technology and the Permanent Secretary. “Invite the Minister of Science
and Technology with the Permanent Secretary to appear before the committee next
week,” the PAC Chairman ruled.