Nigeria needs both urgently! Not just Lagos
but the entire country needs an immediate mass multimodal transportation as
well as outright ban of Okada and it’s twin instrument of mass
destruction, called Keke Napeps! Lord Lugard, the British colonial
administrator once observed that the “… material development of Africa may
be summed in one word – transport ..” . If Lugard were alive today, he
would have summed up the underdevelopment of Nigeria in one word: collapsed
mass-transportation.  A port city and financial centre in Africa, and
the capital city of Nigeria from amalgamation in 1914 to 1991, Lagos from
inception had the magnet to attract crowd. It’s potential for congestion and
overpopulation is long dated. Even at that, the founding fathers and mothers of
Lagos would not have imagined the current transportation melt down.
A (CNN) report last year puts it better — “Lagos traffic is so snarled
and gridlocked that a recent trip from the airport to Ajah, on Lagos Island —
a journey shorter than 50 kilometers — took me eight hours. That was two hours
longer than my flight from Istanbul to Nigeria. Welcome to traffic and travel
Lagos-style, where the roads are clogged and millions of commuters are choked
with frustration about the daily hassle in Nigeria’s commercial capital and
Africa’s fifth largest economy. Disgruntled commuter Yinka Ogunnubi is a typical
example, recently tweeting: “Left my house by 5:30 a.m., got to
work at 9:10 a.m. This is no longer work, it is suffer-head. Dear Boss, Can I
work from home?”Although many in Nigeria find the city alluring,
especially for economic reasons, living in Lagos, the third most stressful city in the world,
can take a mental toll. I hail the decision of the state governor,
Babajide Sanwo-Olu who on Monday, January 27, 2020, announced a ban on the
activities of Okada and Keke Napeps in some Local Government Areas like Apapa,
Lagos Mainland, Surulere, Eti Osa, Lagos Island, Ikeja effective from February
1, 2020. The ban also reportedly affects Gokada, Oride and other high sounding
but miserable ride-hiring devices that take commuters to anywhere including
hospitals and early graves but certainly not work places. The Federal Ministry of Information and
Culture commendably organized the 2019 Independence Photo Exhibition with the
theme, ”NIGERIA IN THE 1960s” between Tuesday, 24th September and Wednesday
25th September, 2019  at the National Press Centre, Radio House, Area 10
Garki, Abuja. At the event as part of the activities marking Nigeria at
59th, I saw with great delight a photo exhibition depicting rare pictures
of profound historic significance. One picture showed Marina street Lagos in
1956. I could not see a single commercial Okada rider on old Marina street. On
the contrary, there were tens of old Beetle cars, indicating that a much poorer
colonial Nigeria assigned higher value to quality of life than a richer Nigeria
60 years after! It is bad enough that we virtually destroyed integrated urban
transport system of mass transit through roads and railways of the 6Os. But it
is simply unacceptable that in 2020, a country of  200 million
people  allows its citizens to be transported by miserable objects called
Okadas and Keke Napeps!  Okadas are not just “accidents” waiting to
happen, they are daily tragedies! If poorer Ghana does not allow motor bike in
Accra city, only poverty of values of ruling class of Nigeria can allow such
malady. It is officially criminal to ignore the fact that these motorcycles are
murdering their vulnerable users in hundreds nation-wide. One of the lowest
points of OBJ administration was when he as a President who should know better,
elected to become the patron of Okada riders association. He presided over an
administration which massively imported with scarce foreign exchange from China
environmentally unfriendly motorcycles from China. Motorbikes  churn out
16 times more pollution than cars!, Many state governors turned government
houses to dumping cites of pollution-ridden bikes under the dubious poverty
alleviation which is nothing but official money laundering. Instead of
investing in public transportation such as railways, setting up assembly plants
for mass busses that would create sustainable jobs, Nigeria inadvertently
exported jobs through senseless importation of devices as Okada and kekenapep.
Never again should  President or Governors provide mass means of transport
which they too would never use. There was once a Borno state under Governor
Alhaji Modu Sheriff who proudly exhibited his  sensational Jeep farm 
of some 76 Jeeps while he left his citizens with Okada that turned out
instruments of mass destruction by insurgents nurtured through unemployment and
mass poverty under his rule. It’s just not enough to ban okada but there must
be in place mass transportation. And better still, there must be urgent
Industrialization drive to reopen dead factories and create mass decent jobs.
Lagos government must make sure the blue rail line from Marina to Mile 2 starts
next year. Addis Ababa Light Rail 17-kilometre (11 mi) line running from
the city centre to industrial areas in the south of the city opened on 20
September 2015. Lagos rail line started before Addis Ababa. As a trade
unionist, I bear witness that okada riding is not a decent sustainable job. In
fact it is  in a deskilling precarious work that lacks minimum standards
like minimum wages and minimum health and safety rules. Okada riding is a
modern willful slave trade. We must revive  the industrial estates
currently occupied by churches and emergency pastors and get  Okada riders
off roads of mass murders, under-employment to sustainable jobs in the
factories. I recall that in 2014,  yours sincerely  witnessed the historic flagged off of the
much awaited intercity passenger train services and haulage of petroleum
services from Lagos to Kano by the then Minister of Transport, Senator Idris
Umar at the headquarters of the Nigerian Railway Corporation, Ebute Metta,
Lagos. Indeed I was privileged to have a ride with thousands of passengers on
Ilorin-Kano train that took off from Ebute Metta. I happily de-boarded at Ikeja
railway station in a record 15 minutes historic rail-ride that invoked
nostalgia of my first trip by rail from Ilorin to Lagos in 1969 as a primary
school pupil unaccompanied by my parents. The car with my driver that took me
to Ebute Metta was still held up at Oyingbo notorious road traffic mess while I
had disembarked at Ikeja from the modest but significant rail service. The fact
that my car driver caught up with me one hour and half later underscores the
economic fact that nothing moves goods and mass of peoples over a long
distance, faster and cheaper than the railways! Nigeria can only compete with
China, India and Russia if we can only transport mass of working people to work
and back, not significant few on miserable devices called Okada. Issa
Aremu mni