The Senate has given
Ministries, Departments and Agencies of government a two-week window period to
appear before the Senate Committee on Local and Foreign Debts to defend
President Muhammadu Buhari’s loan request presently before the National
Assembly. The call on MDAs to
appear before the Panel was made by the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan,
following a point of order raised on the floor by the Chairman of the
Committee, Senator Clifford Ordia (PDP – Edo Central). Coming under Order 43
of the Senate Rules, Ordia bemoaned the failure of relevant Ministries and
Agencies of government to appear before the Committee to defend the proposed
allocation of monies for projects under their supervision and captured in
President Buhari’s loan request. The Ministries,
Departments and Agencies of government yet to appear before the Senate
Committee, according to the lawmaker, include: The Federal Ministries of
Education, Power, Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Water Resources,
Communication and Digital Economy, Health, Humanitarian Affairs, and
Agriculture. The President of the
Senate, Ahmad Lawan, in his remarks, urged the relevant MDAs to appear before
the Senate Committee on Local and Foreign Debts to provide necessary
information required by the Senate to reach a decision on President Buhari’s
loan request before the National Assembly. He said: “Because you
have come under order 43 on personal explanation, this is not open to debate. “But let me advise
that this Senate is committed to ensuring that such important issue like the
foreign loan request of the executive needs to be taken with seriousness by
both sides (the Executive and Legislature). “The Senate is making
every possible effort that we understand why the request, therefore, we need
details, we need information so that we take the appropriate decision as
quickly as possible. “So, I will ask these
agencies that have not appeared before the Committee to do so between now and
Monday. So, I believe this is an advice that would be taken very seriously by
these agencies.” Chairman of the Local
and Foreign Debts Committee, Senator Ordia, however pleaded for an extension of
the window period to two weeks, a request which was approved by the Senate
President.