 Niger State Government has declared
a state of emergency on sanitation and hygiene to salvage the problems that
have been a challenge to the water and sanitation sector of the state. Speaking at a post-Exco Media
briefing in Minna, the Commissioner for Water Resources, Alhaji Yusuf Suleiman
said the approval of the Effective – Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (E-WASH)
policy by the present administration would pave way for the state to meet some
international conditions that will give the state the leverage to grants and
improving its water and sanitary sector. He said the E-WASH policy would also
enable the State Water Board to manage 5 urban areas in the state, (Minna,
Suleja, Kontagora, Bida and New Bussa) adding that, with the implementation of
the E-WASH policy, there will also be clearance to have a sub-agency within the
board that will manage the rural water supply and a small-town water agency
that will manage semi-urban areas. The Commissioner disclosed that the
state government would soon commence the enforcement of relevant laws on open
defecation which has been a major challenge to hygiene in the state. Also speaking, the State
Commissioner of Mineral Resources, Mr. Daniel Sunday Kolo revealed that
government is establishing a mining city or a hub in the state in order to
coordinate and checkmate illegal mining activities taking place in the state. The commissioner decried the large
scale illegal mining activities in the state which, he argued, has a link to
the unabated security challenges that has bedevilled the state in recent times
as ‘hoodlums’ have taken over such illegal sites. Mr. Sunday Kolo stated that the
mining city will not only create employment for our teeming youths, it will
boost the Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) profile of the state. According to him, the mining city
would consist of a laboratory to analyze minerals found, a processing machine,
as well as a ready market for the minerals. He said the Central Bank of Nigeria
(CBN) is to provide the grant for the mining city.