The fourth prosecution witness (PW4), Abubakar Umar, in the
ongoing trial of former governor of Benue State, Gabriel Suswam on Monday, on
Monday, February 3, 2020, told Justice Okon Abang of the Federal High Court,
Abuja, that he was under pressure to change his statement to favour Suswan. Suswam alongside his former Commissioner of Finance, Okolobia
Okpanach, is facing prosecution on a nine count charge bordering On money laundering and diversion of funds to the tune of N3.1
billion, by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, before Justice
Abang. At today’s hearing, the PW4, a Bureau De Change operator and Chief
Executive Officer (CEO), Fantfash Resources, Umar, told the court that some
influential people have been calling on him, persuading him to change his
statement against his former boss, Suswam. Umar told the court how Suswam called and instructed him to meet
his lawyer, J. P. Daudu (SAN), who will tell him what to do. “He called and told me to go and see his lawyer, J P Daudu, and
when I got there, Daudu asked why did I wrote my statement the way I did. I
told him to ask the person who sent me to him (Suswam). Daudu now told me to
leave since it is like this”, he stated. Umar also gave account of how his account was credited with huge
amount of N413 million on August 8, 2014, adding that the first money that
entered his account was huge amount from Elixir Investment. The witness confessed that it took him about eight to 10 days to
change the money from Naira to Dollars and before then, there wasn’t much money
in the account. According to him, on September 12, 2014, another N637 million
was deposited into the account of Fantfash and after one or two hours, another
N363 million, was also deposited into the account. Umar said he changed the
money to Dollars before taking it to the former governor, Suswam. He also revealed that on October 13, 2014, another N630 million
was also deposited into the account of Fanffash Resources. Umar also told the court that on October 17, 2014, Elixir
Investment again paid into Fanffash Resources, the sum of N1.68 billion which
he also used to buy Dollars, adding that it took him a period of 12 days, to
buy the Dollars and thereafter called his former boss, Suswam, to let him know
that the Dollars were ready, before taking it to him. According to the PW4, he was the only person that delivered the
money to Suswam adding that it was because he was the only one that the
defendant gave instructions to send the money to Fantfash Resources, and
exchange the money in Dollars before bringing them to him. The witness told the court that in all the transactions, he
never visited Benue State in his life. While being cross-examined by the defence counsel, C O
Ogbozor,  about his earlier statement that he took the money to the
government house in Benue State, Umar confirmed making such statement but added
that he made the statement under pressure. “Yes, I recall saying that, but I was being pressured then.
But no, I didn’t take it to Benue Government House. I took it to Government
House but I never mentioned Benue or anywhere”, he stated. Justice Abang adjourned the matter
till February 4 and 5, 2020, for further cross-examination and continuation of
trial.