President
Muhammadu Buhari Thursday
in Abuja said the military will be re-professionalized and re-equipped to meet
the growing exigencies of security in the country, assuring Nigerians that the
promise of ending terrorism would be realised. “We
promise to re-professionalise and re-equip the Armed Forces and security
agencies to effectively discharge their duties to our nation,’’ the President
said at the commissioning of  two Nigeria Air Force Agusta 109 Power
Helicopters and  Mi-17 E Helicopters at the Eagle Square. President
Buhari said: “professionalism, capacity building and adequately equipping the
Armed Forces and other security agencies are a major policy thrust of the Administration.’’ The
President urged the Nigeria Air force to ensure discipline in their operations,
and a strong maintenance culture that will enable the nation derive maximum
benefits from the newly acquired helicopters. “I
have no doubt that the deployment of these Agusta 109P gunships and the M-17IE
helicopter would add impetus to the combat efficiency of the Air Force in
combating our contemporary security challenges,’’ he added. President Buhari noted
that two earlier commissioned Agusta 109 Power helicopter gunships, which were
procured from Italy over a year ago, had made impact on the war against
terrorism. President Buhari commended
the support of the Governments of Italy and the Russian Federation, and efforts
of the Italian and Russian Ambassador to Nigeria, at sustaining the strategic
partnership which facilitated this acquisition. “I want to, once
again, salute the resolve of our Armed Forces and the invaluable contributions
of all security agencies for their efforts towards the decimation of Boko
Haram. “Your contributions in
internal security, peace keeping and humanitarian operations in places like The
Gambia, Guinea Conakry, Mozambique, Liberia, Sierra Leone, Mali, Guinea Bissau
and Cameroon have not only been a source of pride to us as a nation, but has
also projected us as a reliable regional power.,’’ he said. According
to him, “I promised to put an end to Boko Haram insurgency, kidnapping and
other forms of criminalities that have bedeviled our country during my
inaugural speech as President. “You
will all agree with me that the successes we have achieved so far have restored
our pride and honour the world over. Consequently, I want to sincerely thank
Nigerians for believing in our government inspite occasional outrages, coming
together as a nation, irrespective of political, religious and ethnic
affiliations, in our strive to bring this menace to an end.’’ President
Buhari appreciated Nigerians for their support of the military and other
security agencies against terrorism, banditry and kidnapping, adding that the
security challenges would be collectively won. In
his remarks, the Minister of Defence, Bashir Salihi Magashi, said the purchase
of the helicopters further demonstrate the administration’s commitment to
bringing the security challenges in the country under control. The
Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, said the visionary approval
to purchase more aircraft for the Air force since 2015 had impacted positively
on the fight against terrorism and other crimes. “Your
Excellency’s government has so far procured and inducted 22 aircraft. And the
service is expecting 17 additional platforms including 12 x Super Tulcanos from
the United States,’’ he said.