 The Senate has
initiated moves to ensure strict compliance with fiscal transparency and
accountability by Ministries, Departments and Agencies of government sequel to
the consideration of a bill to repeal and re-enact the Fiscal Responsibility
Act, 2007. Sponsor of the bill,
Senator Aishatu Dahiru Ahmed (APC, Adamawa Central), in her lead debate, said
there are “deficiencies that render implementation and enforcement of the
provisions of the Act too administrative, especially without clear cut punitive
measures” as consequence for violations. According to the
lawmaker, in order to make the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) more
effective, “there is need to make public consultation mandatory and not
discretionary by the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning.” She added, “There
should be corporate debt limits clearly defined for the three tiers of
Government in the MTEF and the strategies for its reduction and
sustainability.” The lawmaker stated
further that the bill under amendment, which is intended to improve compliance
to fiscal transparency and accountability, makes it mandatory for all
corporations and agencies to prepare and submit detailed revenue and
expenditure estimates to the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning. The bill also
reinforces the remittance of operational surpluses of eighty percent by
Government corporations and agencies to the Consolidated Revenue Fund (CFR) as
contained in Section 22 of the existing Act. The piece of
legislation also provides for sanctions to all categories of infringements of
the Fiscal Responsibility Act such as payment of Fines, prison sentence or both
and other punitive measures as may be ordered by the court. She added that the
bill, which seeks to establish the Fiscal Responsibility Council, will
guarantee improvement in implementation and compliance with of the Fiscal
Responsibility Act to ensure transparency and accountability in the nation’s
resources. Contributing to the
debate, Senator Ibikunle Amosun (APC, Ogun Central) said that for Nigeria to
make progress as a country, the Bill to repeal and re-enact the Fiscal
Responsibility Act, if passed by the National Assembly, “will deepen
accountability and reduce corruption.” The bill, which scaled
second reading during plenary, was referred to the Committee on Finance by the
Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege, who presided over Thursday’s plenary
session. The Finance Committee
which is expected to carry out further legislative work on the bill is Chaired
by Senator Olamilekan Adeola (APC – Lagos West) and expected to report back to
the Senate in four weeks. Meanwhile, four
separate bills seeking to establish the Nigerian Maritime University,
Okerenkoko, Delta State; the Federal University, Birnin-Kebbi; the College of
Education, Mutum Biyu, Taraba State; and Federal University of Technology,
Manchok, Kaduna State, all passed second reading on the floor. The bills were
referred by Senator Omo-Agege to the Senate Committee on Tertiary Institutions
and TETFUND.