Following
 the unveiling of its range of lubricants
late last year, the NNPC Retail Ltd, one of the Downstream subsidiaries of the
Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), has commenced the roll-out of
its Nitro and Rhino range of engine oils into the market. Group
Managing Director of NNPC, Mallam Mele Kyari, disclosed this at the formal
launch of the products which held Friday at the International Conference
Centre, Abuja. Addressing
marketers, distributors, managers of NNPC Retail’s affiliate stations and other
stakeholders at the event, Mallam Kyari urged Nigerians to embrace the Nitro
and Rhino range of engine oils as they were specially designed to meet the
needs of Nigerian motorists. He
certified the quality of the products, adding: “They are not in competition
with any product, they are a replacement for any other product in the market”. Also
speaking at the event, Chairman of the NNPC Retail Ltd’s Board and NNPC Chief
Operating Officer, Gas and Power, Engr. Yusuf Usman, said the idea of NNPC
lubricants was conceived long ago but it took time for the products to be
designed and perfected in order for them to meet the company’s brand-characteristics
of integrity and quality. He
assured that the introduction of the Nitro and Rhino range of engine oils into
the market would mark a turning point for Nigerian motorists. On
his part, the NNPC Chief Operating Officer, Downstream, Engr. Adeyemi Adetunji,
said the products were designed to stem the tide of prevalence of sub-standard
engine oils in the Nigerian market which had been a cause for concern among
motorists. He
said there was huge potential for the products as Nigeria was the third largest
lubricant market in Africa, stressing that even with the introduction of
electric cars, lubricants would still be required. Speaking
earlier at a pre-launch press conference, Managing Director of NNPC Retail Ltd,
Sir Billy Okoye, urged Nigerians to see the Nitro and Rhino range of engine
oils as their own as they were the shareholders of the company and its parent
company, NNPC. He
assured that in keeping with the company’s strategic objective of making high
quality petroleum products available to Nigerians at the right quantity for the
right price, the Nitro and Rhino range of engine oils would be available at the
over 600 NNPC Retail petrol stations, as well as accredited distributors and
mechanic workshops across the country. He
explained that the Nitro range of engine oil which comes in four variants –
Nitro Diamond, Nitro Gold, Nitro Super 40, and Nitro 2T – is for petrol
engines, with the Nitro 2T specially designed for two-stroke engines like
motorcycles. The
Rhino range which has two variants (Rhino X and Rhino HD), he explained, is
designed for diesel engines. “NNPC
brings to bear its wealth of experience in birthing the Nitro and Rhino ranges,
hence the connection with the slogan, “Na My Papa Born Me”, in the product
adverts we are rolling out in the media. The message is that the products are
truly Nigerian, truly National, truly World Class”, the NNPC Retail boss
stated.