There is a trending video on the social media showing a convoy of President Muhammadu Buhari being booed by people of Borno during a sympathy visit to Maiduguri over the recent killing of travellers by Boko Haram terrorists in the  State. Residents on both sides of the road along the airport expressway publicly expressed their disapproval by booing the convoy, shouting in Hausa, ‘Ba ma so, Ba Ma yi’ roughly means: ‘we don’t like it, we won’t do it.’  President Buhari landed in Maiduguri, the Borno State
capital, from Addis Ababa to pay a sympathy visit to the government and people
of the State, following the recent horrific incident in which Boko Haram
terrorists killed several travellers. President Buhari was in Addis Ababa,
Ethiopia since last Friday attending the Ordinary Session of Heads of State and
Government of the African Union (AU) when Boko Haram terrorists attacked
travellers on Auno village along Maiduguri-Damaturu Road. Some residents claimed that it was not President who was
booed but the service chiefs in the convoy who were blamed for not containing
the excesses of terrorists in North-East. Meanwhile, PRNigeria has confirmed
that the video is genuine and the residents were actually booing the convoy of
the president which included Ministers and Security Chiefs during the
condolence visit. Meanwhile, in a statement issued by his media aide, Garba
Shehu, President Buhari commiserated with the family of victims of attacks in
Maiduguri, assured them that his administration will continually frustrate the
devilish operations of Boko Haram, and bring it to an end. The President said
his administration is ever determined to frustrate their goal to hold Nigeria
to ransom. “The commitment of this administration to protect the lives
of Nigerians will not be derailed by the cowardly and indiscriminate violence
against innocent people by Boko Haram terrorists,’’ he said, while reacting to
recent attacks in Maiduguri. The President Buhari, who also condoled with the
government of the state, warned “that terrorists are clearly on a back foot and
their days are numbered’’. “As our armed forces continue to receive more hardware and
intelligence to counter our current security challenges, the remnants of Boko
Haram will ultimately be crushed. The peculiar challenges of asymmetric warfare
notwithstanding, our armed forces are ever determined to defeat these enemies
of humanity,’’ President Buhari said. 
By PRNigeria