 By Chimezie Godfrey The Anambra-Imo River Basin Authority has failed to submit its audited account for 7 years, ranging from 2012 to 2018, according to the report of the Auditor General for the Federation. The startling revelation was made on
Monday in Abuja at the ongoing public hearing organized by the Public Accounts
Committee (PAC) of the Federal House of Representatives. This is a two week,”Public
Hearing on the Need to Investigate the Deliberate and Reckless Refusal by 
Non-Treasury and Partially Funded Agencies to Render their Audited Accounts
Covering the period of 2014 _2018 to the Auditor General for the Federation. According to the findings by the
Auditor General of the Federation, Anthony Mkpe Ayine, the Anambra/Imo River
Basin Development Authority only submitted the Audited Accounts of the year
2011, while it failed to account for the period of 2012 to 2018. The Managing Director, Anambra/Imo
River Basin Development Authority, Engr. Gerald Okechukwu Osuagwu confirmed
that the findings were true but pointed out that he was not part of the
management body as at the stipulated time, as he only assumed office on 4th of
June, 2019. “I assumed duty as the MD on
4th of June, 2019. “However, prior to that I
started overseeing their crises from February, 2019,” Osuagwu stated. On further interrogation by the
Chairman Public Accounts Committee, Hon. Oluwole Oke, the MD disclosed that he
was succeeded by three Managing Directors, whose names are Michael Nwabufor,
Engr. Michael Okoroafor and Engr.Onu Enuwa, respectively. In contradiction to the findings of
the PAC, the Deputy Director Accounts, Pascal Emeguru who was Head of Finance
and Accounts for ten years stated that  audited account for 2012 was
submitted but they did not receive any letter of evidence of submission. The Public Accounts Committee in its
ruling ordered that all previous MDs of the agency should appear before the
committee. The PAC ruling also stated that
performance audit and project audit should be conducted, and that the Auditor
General for the Federation should also carry out comprehensive status enquiry. Chad Basin Development Authority,
Benin/Owens River Basin Development Authority, Niger-Delta River Basin
Development Authority and Sokoto River Basin Development Authority were equally
called to render their Audited Accounts for the stipulated years. Others were Cross River Basin
Development Authority, and Lower Benue Basin Development Authority, all with
various shortcomings and PAC ruling. The PAC also called to account the
Lagos International Trade Fair, SMEDAN, NAMA, NAFDACFederal College of
Education (Akoka) Technical, Federal College of Fresh Water Fisheries Technical,(Baga),
Federal College of Education, (Bichi), and Federal College of Education,
(Potiskum), among others. The Public Accounts Committee
hearing had in attendance, Hon. Olufemi  Adebanjo, Alimosho Federal
Constituency (Lagos), Olubukola Oyewon (Osun State), Ibrahim Abdulkahi Dutse
(Dutse Federal Constituency, Jigawa), Hon.Aniekan Umanah, and Abdullahi Ibrahim
(Ankpa Constituency. Others are Hon. Lawal Shettima Ali,
Usman Abdullahi, Bashir Uba Mashema,  Hon. Ifeanyi Momah, Abubakar Yarko
(Sokoto State), Hon. Aniekan (Akwa-Ibom State), Hon. Zakari (Michika) Adamawa
State, and Hon. Abubakar Garba Sawa(Kano State). The Public Accounts Committee
hearing which began at 11:00am was concluded at 3:10pm, and it was adjourned to
Tuesday 25th, February, 2020. Earlier, Oluwole Oke, Chairman, PAC,
stressed that the Public Accounts Committee hearing is focused on evidence of
rendition of audited accounts and reasons for non-submission. He noted that the objective is to
strengthening the functions Public Accounts Committee, among other
benefits.