 ..Introduction: It is my
honor and privilege to address this august body on this important annual
retreat and strategy session. Represented in this room is the unimpeachable
testimonial that young people are not only rising to take their place in
Nigeria but that you are building a bridge to move Nigeria from its
uncomfortable realities to a more glorious future. As Frantz Fanon rightly
pointed out, “Each generation must discover its mission, fulfill it or betray
it, in relative opacity”. By this event, you are making bold effort to fulfil
the mission of building a democratic and prosperous Nigeria. Very few
generations are presented this kind of epochal front row seat in redesigning
the trajectory of their country. In you seated here today, opportunity has met
readiness. This call to duty speaks to the urgency of now and the fundamental
need for us as a people and for you as the young generation to rewrite the
story of Nigeria. In 1960 Nigeria became
independent. It was not just a ceremony that unshackled us from colonialism, but
it was a symbol of hope and a solemn promise to a generation yet unborn that
Nigeria will be a country that will support their dreams and provide them space
to thrive. It was a promissory note that guaranteed liberty, freedom and
security. Those promises began to unravel as soon as they were made. We went
through unfortunate military dictatorship, atrocious civil war and debilitating
economic difficulty. The fabrics of our unity and humanity was severely tested
and stretched. Today we are a nation with deep scars that hide unspoken pain
and pent up frustration. Many a times, the National Assembly which you
honorably represent has been at the receiving end of that frustration and
rightly so. The Urgency of Now The return to democracy in 1999
became a reaffirmation of the promises of independence. It provided hope and
guaranteed freedom. It built a structure for checks and balances and imbued
each organ of government with the responsibility of protecting the constitution
and ensuring the wellbeing of the Nigerian people. Inherent in the promise of
our constitution is the primacy of citizens who the constitution conferred with
sovereignty. The solemn task of the National Assembly is to protect that
sovereignty and ensure that laws and actions of the other arms of government
serve only the interest of citizens and by extension the interest of the
Nation. Today, the reality is that our
hard-won democracy is under threat majorly from its inability to deliver on
development. Nearly 21 years after return to democracy we have more poor people
in Nigeria than we had in 1999. We have more out of school children. We have
high crime rate. We have insurgency, banditry and violence. Everyday blood of
our brothers and sisters are being spilled in volumes that horrify even the strongest
hearted. We are becoming numb to the violence, the suffering and poverty. We
are moving in fits and starts. Every notable progress we make in our democratic
journey is often overshadowed by the seemingly intractable contradictions of
our nation. I however do not doubt the
capacity of a democracy to correct itself. The event of today and the huge
potentials in this room speak eloquently to the fact that what is good about us
as a nation is bigger than any challenge we are currently facing. But for this
to happen, the democratic principles of liberty, rule of law and separation of
powers must be respected and protected at all cost. We are seeing the erosion
of these principles daily. Protecting the Rule of Law and
Separation of Power In 1932 Franklin D. Roosevelt was
elected President of the United States. At the time of his inauguration,
one-quarter of the Labor force was unemployed. America was going through the Great
Depression and the economy was in tatters. President Roosevelt had a mandate to
implement ambitious policies to combat the Great Depression. His policy to deal
with these huge problems was called the New Deal. President Roosevelt had a
majority in both Senate and House of Representative enough to pass whatever
legislation he wanted. However, some of his ambitious provisions around
National Industry Recovery Act created constitutional challenges. The Supreme
Court rightly struck down Title 1 of the Act. In their ruling they said-
“Extraordinary conditions may call for extra ordinary remedies.
But…extraordinary conditions do not create or enlarge constitutional powers”.
The good intentions of the President were not in doubt. The judgment of the
court hampered the noble agenda of addressing a pressing challenge. The
president’s response was to find a way to whittle down the powers of the
Supreme Court by enlarging its membership with the intent of appointing pliable
jurists to join the court and do his bidding. Under the uncertain and dangerous
economic times in the United States, you would think that the President’s good
intention will win Congress over. However, Congress turned the President down.
They did this because they understood that allowing this attempt to undermine
the rule of law by the President would undermine the balance of power and the
system of democracy that has protected both Congress and citizens. When the door
is opened for government to undermine the principles of rule of law to achieve
immediate gain, it is difficult to close it. It is a slippery slope that
destroys its enablers, emboldens the beneficiary and blurs the line between
state and individual interest. Nigeria is going through one of
its roughest patches since after the civil war. We are confronted with a
terrible level of insecurity. Global Rights reports that in 2019, Newspapers in
Nigeria reported 3,188 people killed in violent attacks. The expanding
footprints of insurgency and the inadequate response from relevant authorities
create an environment of fear and helplessness. In all of these, the tendency is
to lower our guard and entrust our liberty to the whims of government rather
than the rule of law. Government has directly demanded this of us. The policy
that the rule of law is subject to national security is one of the greatest
tragedies of our time. National security as defined by who? The politicization
and privatization of instruments of coercion and security agency for individual
interest as often seen in elections remind all of us that when we allow our
democracy to run on the discretion of the gate keepers, we are entering a
slippery slope that makes all of us victims and pawns in the game of the power
wielders. In the face of stiffest challenge to our nation, the only constant
decimal should be the rule of law which always should guide every action of
government. Government cannot pick and choose court judgment to obey or the
decisions of the Assembly to respect. We cannot confer such unfettered
discretion to anyone in a democracy. The moment our government is no longer run
on established laws but on the whims of the executive, we cease to lay any
claim to democracy. Furthermore, no serious-minded investor or development
partner would want to put resources in a country where the law is not
respected. The sanctity of contract and absence of checks and balances make
such investment an ill-advised risk. Protecting the civic space In the same vein, the current
effort to limit the ability of citizens to express themselves or stifle the
space for civil society to thrive will bring untold damage to the vibrancy of
our already beleaguered democracy. These sets of bills (Social Media and Hate
Speech bills) confer indefinite discretion on the government and security
agencies to determine what constitutes an offence and to unilaterally without
recourse to the judiciary take decision that infringes on the liberty and
freedom of citizens. In a bid to combat digital mischief, we are creating a
bigger monster in our security agencies who have demonstrated clear abuse of
their regulated power and now we are conferring on them ‘unregulated’ powers.
Where do we draw the confidence that they will exercise this in the best
interest of the society? We have seen incidents of abuse of power and extortion
by security agencies. We have seen the inability of our systems to hold them
accountable.  We have seen how it has
imposed hardship on even members of the National Assembly. We can only imagine
what happens to the average Nigeria. We cannot therefore under this reality
reward their rascality with additional powers as envisaged in the Social Media
and Hate Speech Commission Bills. You are perhaps our strongest line of defense
against these anti-democratic bills. Promoting democracy The Supreme Court struck down the
governorship election returns in Bayelsa state. Like the Imo state governorship
decision that predated it, it is sure to put the spotlight on our elections and
the urgent need to reform a system that has obviously lost the confidence of
Nigerians. Our much-vilified constitution is also going through another round
of legislative review. This is a unique opportunity for this Forum to
effectively stamp its mark in the annals of our constitutional history. All of
you here have been victims of the defective electoral and constitutional
framework which have often exposed you to the exploitation of ‘king makers’ and
voters alike. The current system of election management and constitutional
framework is both unsustainable and contraindicative. You are presented an
opportunity and the numbers to ensure that the vicious cycle of inchoate
electoral reforms comes to an end this time. We need to codify the practices
that hold solid promise for electoral integrity and courageously decouple the
twisted thread of self-serving provisions in our laws that have kept credible
contestants under a tight leash with limited room for independent action or
valuable recourse to the will of citizens. We cannot continue to practice
democracy by judicial fiat and subjugate the will of the people to the
fractured framework of the electoral process. The same can be said of our
constitution. While it may not be practical to do a wholesale reset of the
constitution, the piecemeal process which you have adopted should invariably
bear witness to your collective determination and influence. This process must
come out with your DNA prominently stamped on it in a way that gives you a
place of pride in the judgment of history. Opportunities like this come rarely.
The country is yearning for leadership and direction. As individuals you are
equipped to attempt it but as a collective you are positioned to deliver it. In 2015, the Open Society Initiative
for West (OSIWA) and YIAGA conceived the program to support young legislators
to provide a different kind of legislative service to their constituency and
the country. The rationale behind this innovative engagement stemmed from our
unflinching faith in the positive energy of young people and the need to
provide a platform for alternative and positive narrative from young people.
Our belief is that the exploits of a platform like this, will influence and
change in a sustaining manner, the way business is conducted in the National
Assembly. This forum has not disappointed. The Not too Young to Run campaign
which was triggered by your platform again reaffirmed the potency of a
congruence of interest between young legislators and young Nigerians. Our faith
in your potentials have not wavered. More than ever, we need you and your
country needs you. We believe that your decision on behalf of your generation
will be one for the books in years to come. Thank you. Beint text of remarks at the Annual Retreat of Young Nigerian Parliamentarians- Udo Jude Ilo (@udoilo)