A new Assistant Inspector-General of
Police has been posted to Zone XI Police Command, Osogbo comprising Ondo, Osun
and Oyo States. The new AIG, Bashir D. Makama, PSC+ took over from AIG Adeleye
O. Oyebade who is to proceed to the National Institute for Policy and Strategic
Studies, Kuru, Jos where, as a directing staff, he is expected to use his
versatility and academic prowess for manpower development in the foremost
Institute. The new AIG who has since resumed
duty. Born in 1960, AIG Makama attended Federal Government College, Ilorin. He
is a distinguished alumnus of the prestigious Bayero University, Kano and
Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria where he graduated with a Bachelor of Science
degree in Sociology/Political Science and Masters’ degree in Criminal
Jurisprudence respectively. 

The AIG enlisted into the Nigeria Police Force as a cadet Assistant
Superintendent of Police in 1986. Since his passing out from the famous Nigeria
Police Academy, he has served in various capacities including but not limited
to the following: Area Commander, Suleja; Area Commander, Port Harcourt;
Assistant Commissioner of Police Operations, Anambra State; Deputy Commissioner
of Police Operations, Kano; Deputy Commissioner of Police, Special Protection
Unit, Force Headquarters, Abuja; Deputy Commissioner of Police Admin, Anambra
State; Commissioner of Police, Benue State; Commissioner Police Staff College,
Jos; Commissioner of Police Admin, FCID, Abuja; Commissioner of Police, Kwara
State; Commissioner of Police, Akwa Ibom State; and Commissioner of
Police,  Ogun State until his recent elevation to the enviable rank of
Assistant Inspector-General of Police. AIG Makama is a member of the
International Association of Chiefs of Police, USA and National Organisation of
Black Law Enforcement Executives, USA. He has attended various on-the-job
courses such as Advanced Detective Course, Counter Revolutionary Warfare
Course, Senior Command Course, among others. As a competent professional, the
new police boss has participated in various high profile investigations and
operations both within and outside Nigeria. Some of these national and foreign
assignments include: United Nations Mission in Haiti; Community Policing
Project Team member (2003 – 2007), suppression of Niger Delta
Insurgency/militancy (between 2008 and 2010), active participation in the fight
against kidnapping, armed robbery and sundry crimes in the South East, Nigeria. AIG Makama is determined to sustain
the laudable, remarkable achievements recorded by his successor even as he
promises to expand the frontiers of community policing so as to ensure adequate
protection of lives and property in the Zone. To achieve this, he therefore
solicits the support and cooperation of all and sundry.