Borno Governor
Professor Babagana Umara Zulum has said there was need for change of strategies
in the ogoing fight against boko haram. The Governor who
however acknowledged successes recorded by the same military in the state,
spoke in presence of President Muhammadu Buhari at the Shehu of Borno’s palace
in Maiduguri. Buhari was in the state on sympathy visit following boko haram
attacks in Auno which left 30 persons killed with 18 vehicles and houses burnt. “Your Excellency
sir, between the period of March 2019 to date we have started witnessing
horrific and spontaneous attacks by the insurgents which has resulted into the
lost of lives and properties of our people. We are calling upon the Nigerian
military to change strategies and we can borrow a leaf from the success our
military was able to hugely record in the years 2016 and 2017 with a view to
ending the insurgency. We need to keep taking the war to enclaves of the
insurgents in the fringes of the Lake Chad, in Sambisa forest and some notable
areas” Zulum said. Governor Zulum however
commended the President for his commitment to ending the insurgency. He
recalled the gains recorded in the years 2016 and 2017 and also thanked him for
being consistent in showing empathy to the people of Borno. “Let me
appreciate Mr President for associating with us at this our very trying moment.
I am so surprised that we have forgotten the past” Zulum said. The Governor although
he could not ignore the current unfortunate situation, the people of Borno
state still remember the days before Buhari’s emergence, when 20 out of the 27
local government areas in the state were in the hands of boko haram while all
the five routes into Borno state were largely inaccessible with exception of
Maiduguri-Kano road. In addition, he cited, sporadic bombings and killings even
within the capital, Maiduguri. “Close to about
20 Local Government areas were resettled under Buhari. In fact, in the year
2016/2017 we celebrated the demise of the Boko Haram insurgency that has
unfortunately returned” Zulum said. President Buhari
reiterated his commitment to ending the insurgency, fighting corruption and
leading the country to economic recovery. The President called
on the people of Borno to continue cooperation with the military.