 By Salisu Na’inna
Dambatta The establishment of the multi-purpose Ministry
of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development by
President Muhammadu Buhari on August 21st, 2019, is aimed at using the Ministry
as a tool for implementing policies to achieve many good goals designed to have
positive impact on the wellbeing of millions of Nigerians For it is common knowledge that the country has a
humanitarian crisis in the North East, where millions of Nigerians were
negatively affected by the long, medium-intensity Boko Haram insurgency. They
recently attacked civilians at a military checkpoint in Auna village, just 20
kilometers to Maiduguri on the Damaturu-Maiduguri highway. The insurgents massacred scores of innocent
travellers at the scene, reportedly abducted others, destroyed nearly 20
vehicles and caused a national grief and an outpouring of condemnation. President Muhammadu Buhari was so touched as a
humane leader whose administration succeeded in rolling back the insurgents by
degrading their fighting capability that he directly flew into Maiduguri from
an African Union summit in Addis Ababa. He immediately swung into action,
commiserated with the families of the victims, the government and people of
Borno state. He had engagement with the Borno State Governor, the Shehu of
Borno and Borno elders. He assured them in particular and the nation in general
that the Boko Haram insurgents would be defeated by the armed forces. He directed the Minister of Humanitarian Affairs,
Disaster Management and Social Development to swing into action and visit Auno,
render initial early assistance and commence the process of providing succour
to families of the victims and those who lost property during the hideous
attack. In addition to the disruptive and destructive
effects of insurgency on the peace and tranquility in most states of the
geopolitical  zone, the drying up and
devastating shrinking of the Lake Chad has destroyed the livelihoods of
millions of farmers, fisherman, pastoralists and a multitude of other people who
make  their living from the value chains
of the three disrupted economic life lines. This has disastrous consequence on
families. The degrading of otherwise fertile soil into
wasteland by desertification, the turning of a flood plains into sand dunes in
the Borno and Yobe portions of the North East, are additional devastating
effects of climate change which worsened the impact of the death of Lake Chad
on the people living in that part of our country. While studies based on reliable indices rated the
North East as the geopolitical zone with the highest number and concentration
of the poorest households in Nigeria, it is good to hear that the Ministry of
Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development is devising
strategies to squarely work to mitigate the numerous Humanitarian issues there
and in other parts of our country. Indeed, cases of humanirian issues not
necessarily caused by insurgency exist in other parts of the country. The
displacement of communities by bandits and communal clashes in the North West,
the North Central, South South and the South East, are equally catastrophic. The fact that the Ministry is a specialised
institution with qualified staff to design, coordinate or implement policies
and strategies to mitigate the impact of man made and natural disasters, is a
source of solace for Nigerians. The pioneer Minister of Humanitarian Affairs,
Hajiya Sadiya Umar Farouk, the Permanent Secretary and Directors of the
Ministry are in a vintage position to watch over and ensure that the agencies
and programmes under the purview of the Ministry perform optimally to make the
desired impact on the wellbeing of Nigerians. The Agencies and programmes supervised and
coordinated by the Ministry are the National Commission for Refugees, Migrants
and IDPs; the National Emergency Management Agency and the National Agency for
the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons. The rest are the North East
Development Commission; the Sustainable Development Goals; the National Social
Investment Programme, the vital Department of Rehabilitation for People with
Disabilities and the Social Welfare Department which were in the defunct
Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development. The activities of these agencies, programmes and
developments are designed to touch lives positively and improve the well-being
of those adversely affected by natural, man-made or technological incidents.