Professor
Mahmood  Yakubu Chairman of INEC last
week  announced that, the Edo Governorship election holds September
19 while Ondo Governorship poll would be October 10 this year. Given the
dramatized crisis that has engulfed the ruling APC, Edo Governorship poll
raises more political anxiety as much as the last Presidential elections. Few
months to  September 19, partisanship understandably  underpins any
commentary on the battle for the soul of “The Heart Beat of the Nation”.
Precisely because yours truly is involved in Edo project, my partisan bias
is predictable for partisan observers. Since 2008, my commentaries on
Edo  could make for a chapter in my revised Reflections on Good
Governance and Democracy. With
benefits of hindsight today, it is self-evident that good politics and good
governance makes for good partisan commentaries. Conversely acrimonious and
polarized politics even with good governance makes best of commentaries and
reflections an uphill task. I had confessed to my two mutual friends on Edo
project  Mallam Yakubu Aliyu (former Editor of New Nigeria and Principal
Private Secretary to Comrade Governor Adams Oshihomole and Kayode Komolafe,
This Day Deputy Managing Editor,) that I have never been so “compromised” as a
commentator, precisely because am a participant-observer. Only the ever
green  lyric of the legend Fela  Anikulapo sums up my frustration:
“Oro pesi je”. (A  Yoruba saying once translated by Wole Soyinka as “The
proposition swallows the response”!). Edo’s recent serial star words of mutual
suspensions, expulsions, threats to lives and addictive violence, (all within
same political party), beat political imagination as well as task objective
responses. 

There  was once an Edo State in which, cohesion,  unity of purpose
among political friends and collective commitment of the ruling class to the
welfare and security of citizens generated positive news, worthy of emulation
by other states. The September poll will either further deepen the slide
towards  politicide  (defined here as the end of politics of the
ruling APC in Edo ) or  political renaissance that will consolidate on the
achievements of the last 12 years. Much had been written about how
Comrade-Governor, Adams Oshiomhole positively transformed Edo state after 
his two year long walk to Osadebe Avenue government house in Benin City. 

Yours sincerely has  a number of reflections on Edo political renaissance
since Adams Oshimhole joined the political process in 2006 to 2008 when he
regained his stolen mandate in a landmark historic unanimous judgment which
upheld the petition of the Action Congress (AC) candidate in the 2007 April 14
gubernatorial election in Edo state and subsequently declared Comrade Adams
Oshiomhole. Indeed Edo  witnessed a renaissance which defeated the old
pessimism according to which nothing would work as long as political
god-fatherism called the shots. In a decade Edo state  became one huge
reconstruction site in governance! Many things positively went on
simultaneously; from massive rural and urban reconstructions to public schools
reinventions, from innovated sporting facilities (remaking of Ogbemudia
Stadium) to new public transportation (comrade Buses), from maternal and child
care to record mass public employment in record time, from multiple assault on
insecurity to mass beautification of the ancient city of Benin, to massive
water project, from mass job creation through public works to prompt payment of
salaries, including 25per cent increase in minimum wage above the statutory
N18,000. 

These remarkable achievements in infrastructural development; Education;
Health; Water and Electrification; Security;   Administration of
Justice; Agriculture and Economic Empowerment; Employment and Welfare,
Democracy and Governance definitely made APC candidate, Godwin Obaseki, (who
interestingly had been a part of the development team brigade in the eventful
eight years) a worthy successor to Oshiomhole. Comrade Governor 
undoubted put development agenda on the table in Edo state. And true to the
progressive disposition of the good people of Edo, comrade governor and his
party got second term mandate in unprecedented mass victories in all the 18
local governments!  This development agenda was further deepened
when  Edo people four years ago voted for both Godwin Obaseki and Phillips
Shuabu of the ruling APC, as Governor and Deputy respectively. Yours comradely
was part of the movement for sustainable development in Edo State. 

Certainly objectivity is in recess in the atmosphere of the current acrimony.
But there are enough verifiable facts that show that there has not been dull
moment since Obaseki emerged as Governor. Indeed Godwin Obaseki as
the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress promised 
to consolidate on what Governor Adams Oshiomhole has done in his 10-point
manifesto. Since then Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium, had further been improved upon
such that the state qualified as the host of 2020  National Sports
Festival slated for March as well as 2020 Under 20 Women’s’ World Cup. Governor
Godwin Obaseki-led government in line with the legacy of his predecessor has
also promoted urban renewal as one of its key development thrusts with massive
construction of roads, reclaiming of gully erosion sites, construction of parks
and restoring sanity to public places across the state. On education, there has
also been renovation of public schools across. Of special importance, is the
cluster for technology innovators and inventors set up by the Governor Godwin
Obaseki-led government to strengthen the state’s nascent technology innovation
scene. The hub was commissioned on June 14th, 2018 by the Vice President, Prof.
Yemi Osinbajo and hosts the South-South Innovation Hub, a regional cluster for
technology entrepreneurs in the Niger Delta. Of special importance is the
novel  Edo Production Center to drive industrialisation in the state: a
facility that provides Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) and Artisans with 24-hour
electricity, business support, market development, and industry linkage
opportunities, fitted with 500KV transformers, which are connected to the 33KV
line in the area. 

When we add the proposed $200b Benin Enterprise and Industrial Park, the sound
bites from Edo State are melodious than the star words of crisis and violence.
Edo is also among the first state to implement the new minimum wage which
Obaseki publicly announced that it was made easier because Governor Adams paid
more than the hitherto N18000! Count down to September, the APC ruling party
must play up the bigger picture of these historic and contemporary achievements
if the party must avoid politicide or political melt down due to
unacceptable internal party war of attrition that deal more with dysfunctional
and unhelpful issues. 

It is true that all politics are local, but it must also be underscored that
violent acrimonious local  politics under-develops local community. 
Devil is in the details of what had unfolded in the recent times. But Godliness
demands that we see beyond devilish details arising out of fear among brothers
and sisters than reasons of common cause.  It’s time to reinvent
comradeship, friendship and brotherhood and core values of democracy,
principle, leadership and sacrifices for the bigger interests of Edo
state. Issa
Aremu, mni