 The Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria has mandated
the Niger Delta Power Holding Company (NDPHC) to reverse the alleged wrongful
termination of the appointment of a female chartered accountant and a widow
from Borno State, Mrs. Maryam Danna. This is coming 22 months after the last Senate had in their
resolution of May 3, 2018 ordered her immediate reinstatement to her position
as General Manager (Audit & Compliance) of NDPHC. PRNigeria also gathered that President Muhammadu Buhari had
earlier directed that the woman who was sacked in June 2016 be reinstated. On
October 25, 2016, the Attorney General and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami
(SAN), wrote the Chief of Staff, Abba Kyari, intimating him that the President
had during a meeting with him ordered the reinstatement of Mrs Mohammed back to
her job. But the widow was not reinstated. In the latest development, the Upper Chamber also resolved
to immediately communicate its resolution to the Secretary to the Government of
the Federation, Boss Mustapha, and urged him to direct the Managing Director of
the NDPHC for compliance and implementation of the resolution. The Upper Chamber, which adopted the report its Committee on
Ethics, Priviledges and Public Petitions, in Abuja, also directed the NDPHC to
pay all her salaries and other entitlements. Chairman of the Committee, Senator Ayo Akinyelure, in his
report on the petition against the NDPHC by Mrs. Mohammed, said the panel after
painstaking investigation found that Mrs. Mohammed was truly a staff of the
defunct Power Holding Company of Nigeria (PHCN). Akinyelure said that the staff was offered exclusive secondment
to the NDPHC to head the Audit Department as General Manager with effect from
1st July, 2011 and remained a civil servant and not a political appointee. He said: “Prior to her disengagement, there was no meeting
presided over by the Chairman of the Board of NDPHC, Vice-President Yemi
Osinbajo or any other member of the Board of NDPHC where the decision to
disengage her was taken. “The disengagement of Maryam Danna Mohammed along with the
Executive Management team and the Executive Directors of NDPHC who were
political appointees of Mr. President was out of order.” He added that the Committee observed that due process was
not followed in the disengagement of Mrs Mohammed, “in accordance with the
terms and conditions of employment and disengagement of civil servants in the
service of the nation and by extension, the service of NDPHC.” He also noted that the officer was not accused of any
offence, queried or suspended prior to her disengagement which was by
announcement through the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA). The Committee averred that that from the submissions of the
incumbent Managing Director of the NDPHC, that non-communication of the
resolution of the 8tln Senate to the management of the Company, has been the
reason for non-reinstatement of the petitioner up till now. The petitioner, Mrs. Mohammed, in her petition stated that
her disengagement was discriminatory, unfair and that it did not follow laid
down procedure. She also explained that she was offered exclusive secondment
from the PHCN to the NDPHC in 2011 hence she transferred her services to the
agency and was promoted as General Manager the same year. She further explained that throughout her 24 years in
service, she had never been found wanting in the discharge her duties neither
was she involved in any form of misconduct. By PRNigeria