25 high profile terrorist commanders killed since Jan.2020 .As more fighters grew war weary, opts to surrender The Boko Haram
splinter group, Islamic State in West Africa (ISWAP) camp is currently in
disarray as infighting has further factionalised the insurgents especially with
the appointment of Amir Abba-Gana as the new factional leader. Sources informed PRNigeria on Monday that ISWAP Abba-Gana as
new factional leader for the group following the elimination of Ba’a Idirisa,
by the sect group on February 9, 2019. Ba’a Idirisa who replaced Abu-Mossad
Albarnawee both biological children of Late Muhammad Yusuf, three months ago,
was assassinated along with three other Commanders (following)  an (alleged) attempt to surrender and renounce
the war. Intelligence sources noted that further on the spot
assessment conducted on the Jihadists group had revealed that about 25 high
profile Boko Haram Terrorist Commanders were killed within the past two months
following intensified military raid in the North-eastern Lake Chad, while many
others fled the lake chad general area to the neighbouring countries of Chad,
Niger and Cameroon. The massive death was confirmed to have been caused  by Undetonated Improvised explosive
Devices(UIED’s), used to fortify the camps by the insurgents. It was also revealed that the Tumbus are now virtually left
in the hands of local inhabitants who were forcefully recruited or abducted
into the sect mostly from Mobbar, Abadan, Guzamalla, Kukawa and Marte Local
Government Areas (LGAs) of Borno State, North East Nigeria. The local terrorists fighters were also said to have been
forcibly recruited along with some few Budumas who stayed back to hold ground
in anticipation for elevation in status which mostly can not operate some of
the supporting weapons left by the feeing commanders. The source equally noted that two foreign terrorist sponsors
were killed during the air raid and ground assault by the Nigerian troops.
During this operation, sources revealed, all other foreign commanders fled
living behind only one suspected to be moving around Tumbun Kibiya, Tumbun
Alura, Tumbun Kurna and Kayewa where the few commanders and special forces
fighters relocated to after striking Sabon Tumbun and Tudun Wulgo recently. There was also anticipation from Intelligence sources of an
imminent and “massive protest in the ISWAP camps as some fighters started
accusing the leadership of misleading them  while on the other hand, mothers of the
trained infants fighters are also calling on their children to lay down their
arms in order not to be killed convincing them to surrender”. By PRNigeria