The Nigerian National Petroleum
Corporation (NNPC) has stated that it would expand its operational footprints
across the globe, saying the move would enable the corporation boost its global
profile. The Group Managing Director of the
NNPC, Mallam Mele Kyari, disclosed this at the 3rd edition of the
Nigeria International Petroleum Summit (N.I.P.S.) 2020 in Abuja. Mallam Kyari stated that though the
primary focus of the corporation was to ensure energy security for Nigeria, it
had capacity to meet the energy needs of the entire West African sub-region. A press release by the corporation’s
Acting Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs Division, Mr. Samson Makoji,
stated that the NNPC helmsman said NNPC was working with its technical partners
to restore its three refineries to be able to operate at optimal levels. Mallam Kyari added that already the
Phase 1 of the rehabilitation work on the Port Harcourt Refinery had begun with
Phase 2 work in the offing. “We will continue to support the
Dangote refinery and the other modular refinery projects in the country to
guarantee energy security for Africa. Nigeria welcomes foreign investors to
invest in the Oil and Gas Industry. 2020 is year of gas. Nigeria will deepen
domestic gas use and monetization of our huge gas resources,” Mallam Kyari
said. The NNPC helmsman stated that
Nigeria was ready and accessible for investments from all interested countries,
individuals and partners, assuring that their investments were secured with
high returns in the country. Speaking further at the summit,
Mallam Kyari noted that NNPC would sustain its business culture of
Transparency, Accountability and Performance Excellence (TAPE), even as the
corporation remains the only entity in the world that publishes its financial
and operations monthly. He assured that NNPC was more than
ever committed to improving transparency to win the trust of all its
stakeholders as the largest oil corporation in Africa. Mallam Kyari also informed that
Nigeria had found oil in new territories with huge potentials, adding that NNPC
was expanding the Escravos-Lagos Pipeline System 2 (ELPS) and building the
Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano pipeline as part of efforts to expand domestic gas
utilization for the benefit of the Nigerian economy. Speaking in a similar vein, the
Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, who launched
the Nigeria Gas Network Code, said that the Nigerian Gas Sector had the
potential to lift over one 100million Nigerians out of poverty in line with the
aspiration of the President Muhammadu Buhari Administration. President Muhammadu Buhari, who was
represented by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr. Boss
Mustapha, said the Federal Government was determined to entrench transparency
and reduce cost in the nation’s oil and gas value chain. He assured that the Federal
Government would continue to ensure that investments were well secured in
Nigeria, assuring that it would put in place policies to promote conducive
business environment in the interest of all investors. Senate President, Dr. Ahmed Lawan,
who was represented by the Senate Committee Chairman, Upstream, Senator Bassey
Akpan, reassured players in the nation’s Oil and Gas Industry of the commitment
of the 9th National Assembly to enact legislations that would
promote the growth of the nation’s petroleum sector. The summit with theme: “Widening the
Integration Circle: Technology, Knowledge, Sustainability, Partnership”,
attracted goodwill messages from the African Petroleum Producers Organization
(APPO), Oil Producers Trade Section (OPTS) of the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and
other local and international players in the Oil and Gas Industry.