The Speaker of the House of
Representatives Rep. Femi Gbajabiamila has told the various service chiefs that
Nigerians are on the necks of their representatives in the House over the
security situation in the country.

The Speaker said although the service chiefs were doing a
lot, the anxiety among Nigerians was enough reason for the military commanders
to redouble their efforts, challenging them to take the battle to the criminals.

Gbajabiamila spoke at the meeting of the joint House
Committees on ‎Defence, Army, Navy and Air Force with the Chief of Defence
Staff, Chief of Army Staff, Chief of Naval Staff and the Chief of Air Staff.

“I thought I should be here to encourage everybody that
we’re all on the same page. We all know the situation in Nigeria today, we
can’t hide from it, we can’t shy away from it, we cannot pretend that it
doesn’t exist.

“We spent practically the whole day on Wednesday
(January 29) discussing the security situation in Nigeria as expected.
Simultaneously, the Senate was doing the same thing without us comparing notes.

“So, it was a natural reaction to what was going on in
the country today. Back home, our constituents are on our necks. People are
dying every day, they are dying callously in ways that you can only find in
countries without security forces. But we know that you guys are doing a lot.”

The Speaker said as a country, ‎”We must think outside
the box; we must take the battle to these criminals whatever they are‎. Like I
said at the State House the other day, Nigerians are anxious, but I do
understand the limitations of the Armed Forces.

The Speaker who commended the service chiefs, as well as men
and women of the Armed Forces for doing their best and sacrificing their lives
for the country, said the House would continue to engage the armed forces to
find a lasting solution.

“My opening remarks on the floor of the House when we
returned from break was to commend you guys, particularly the ones that are on
the frontlines, sacrificing their lives every day, our men and women in uniform.

“This is another one of those meetings, engagements,
which we said would be continuous. We said it the last time. It’s going to be
continuous to find out exactly what’s going on, what the issues are, what the
problems are, and hopefully get some commitments from you.”

He expressed hope that “moving forward, things are going
to get better. We know what the basic issues are: there’s funding, there’s
equipment, there’s the recruitment of personnel.

“I believe the committee is well equipped to handle
these issues. This is our priority. It’s the government’s priority, and it
should also be our priority in the House. It’s major in our legislative agenda,
and we must address is frontally, squarely and however and whatever needs to be
done,” he said, calling for all stakeholders to work towards ending
insecurity.

Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rep.
Gbajabiamila (left) with the Chairman, House Committee on Defence,, Rep. Jimi
Benson during the meeting of the joint House Committees on ‎Defence, Army, Navy
and Air Force with the Chief of Defence Staff, Chief of Army Staff, Chief of
the Naval Staff and the Chief of the Air Staff at the National Assembly on
05/02/2020