 As
the deadline for the Campus Journalism Awards, CJA 2020 draws closer, Youths
Digest, organisers of the award have announced members of the screening
Committee saddled with the responsibility of screening the entries to select
the finalists in the award. CJA
which is in its 3rd edition, is the first campus journalism award set aside for
student journalists in tertiary institutions across Nigeria and other African
countries. This
year’s edition will consider 30 finalists to vie for 15 categories. The
15 awards up for grabs at event include “Upcoming Writer”, “Entertainment
Writer”, “Sports Writer”, “Reporter”, “Gender Equality Reporter”, “Broadcaster”
and “Photo-journalist”. Others
are: “Penclub”, “Author (Book)”, “Social Media Influencer”, “Investigative
Journalist”, “Features Writer”, “Editor”, “Print Magazine” and “Campus
Journalist of the Year”. Entries
will be closed on Monday, 10 February, 2020, while the grand award ceremony
will hold on Saturday, March 28, 2020 in Abuja. According
to Gidado Shuaib, the convener of the awards and editor of Youths Digest, the
committee was set up in a bid to promote transparency in the process of
honouring outstanding students journalists. He
noted that the panel will determine the modus operandi to select the winners of
each categories. The
panel will be headed by Alfred Olufemi, a journalist with Premium Times
newspaper and a three-time winner in the previous editions of the awards. Other
members of panel include; Adekunle Adebajo, an investigative journalist with
the International Centre for Investigative Reporting (ICIR); Adejumo Kabir, the
executive director of Campus Press Hub, Maryam Abdullahi, the 2019 winner of
the best campus journalist category of CJA and Olanrewaju Oyedeji. Meanwhile,
in his statement of acceptance, Mr Olufemi urged campus journalists across the
country to apply for this edition, which promises more benefits to winners. “The
award is a really competitive one but I can assure you that the panel will
deliver nothing but its best while judging the entries. Good luck to all
entrants!” He said.