By Salihu Moh. Lukman smlukman@gmail.com Progressive Governors Forum, Abuja With the emergence of APC in 2013,
following a very successful merger negotiations led by the leadership of
defunct Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) and
Congress for Progressive Change (CPC), our democracy was able to record some
good measure of progress. Not only that the merger was the first time Nigerian
political parties were able to successfully unite and become one party, the
leadership of the parties that merged made every sacrifice required to ensure
the emergence of APC as a strong united political party. Part of the components of the
contributions of the APC to Nigeria’s democracy include that the problem of
imposition of candidates in elections were minimised considerably within the
APC, at least in the 2015 elections. Unfortunately, that is where our problems
started. Contestants in party primary election failed to develop the needed
sportsmanship to accept results. The old habits of aspiring candidates taking
over leadership structures of the party and through that therefore
predetermining results of the primary elections remained the case. Consequently, since 2015, conducts
of primary elections within the party has been rancourous in virtually all our
states. Our National Working Committee (NWC), which is saddled with the
leadership responsibility of managing all our internal processes and where
there are problems, facilitate resolution of the problems, is unable to do so.
Inability to resolve problems associated with management of 2015 elections have
been compounded with more problems from 2019 elections. In fact, multiplicity
of these problems has made us to lose elections in Adamawa, Bauchi, Oyo, Sokoto
and Zamfara. Perceived weaknesses of the Chief
John Odigie-Oyegun-led NWC served as the justification of electing Comrade
Adams Oshiomhole as replacement to Chief Oyegun. Sadly, challenges of internal
democracy and fair competitive practices during candidates’ selection processes
in the party remained a dream. Now, clearly the problems associated with
candidates’ selection process has produced what can be regarded as an electoral
college. Citizens can vote but our Supreme Court will eventually determine the
winner. All as a result of very poor management of candidates’ selection
process by our party. Unfortunately, our party’s NWC is
hardly able to come up with any reassuring response. The crisis in the party is
clearly getting worse and worse by the day. It has gotten to a stage whereby
the competence of members of the Comrade Oshiomhole-led NWC to provide needed
leadership to ensure victory in every election has been eroded. We can win
election and on account of some inabilities to competently manage legal
challenges associated with nomination of candidates, we are compelled to
surrender victory to our opponents. This is the narrative of the Supreme Court
judgement of February 13, 2020 in respect of November 16, 2019 Bayelsa
elections. It was also the case with the May 24, 2019, Supreme Court
nullification of the election of all APC candidates in the 2019 elections in
Zamfara State. In other words, our NWC can be
described as a very efficient trojan horse that opens the backdoor for
electoral victory to our political opponents. It is really unfortunate that we
are faced with all the avoidable electoral tragedies that has befell us, all
because our NWC has decided to abdicate its responsibility. This is quite
disheartening and certainly beyond any expectation. How can all these be
happening under the watch of Comrade Oshiohmole as the National Chairman?
Comrade Oshiomhole’s leadership credentials cannot be disputed. But given what
is going on now in APC under his watch, it is very clear that he is not that
same Comrade Oshiomhole that was an inspiring union leader who competently
handled all organisational leadership challenges to the admiration of
Nigerians. Part of the problem now is that he
is surrounded by sycophants mainly from Edo State. Any attempt to help him
through objective advice is condemned as betrayal especially when such advice
come from people who were close to him. Many of those who claimed now to be his
supporters and loyalists are people who only relate with him based on his
position of power and capacity therefore to influence access to political positions.
His success as a leader who is able to direct the party towards electoral
victory is never their consideration except if they are the candidates. One cannot blame these sycophantic
crowd around our National Chairman. But I will definitely express my disbelief
at the way Comrade Oshiomhole has become all of a sudden, a leader who is
intolerant to criticisms. His level of intolerance is so high that any
disagreement or criticism expressed against any of his decisions or actions is
classified as betrayal and therefore requiring disciplinary actions. The
procedure for disciplinary actions has become so cheapened such that all the
relevant provisions in the party’s constitution are violated. As a result,
Comrade Oshiomhole is today the leading accuser, prosecutor and judge in almost
all cases where disciplinary actions have been administered in the party. The
only probable exception may be the case in his Ward in Edo State where he is
also being alleged to have been disciplined. With this kind of background, it is
almost impossible to start any process of engagement to resolve our problems in
the party without addressing the issue of intolerance that is today the main
characteristic of the Comrade Oshiomhole-led NWC. This is not in any way
questioning the capacity or competence of the Chief Bisi Akande-led APC
National Reconciliation Committee. No doubt, Chief Bisi Akande is one leader
who has all that is required to assist the party and all our leaders to resolve
current challenges. In fact, Chief Akande, having led the party, immediately
after the merger negotiations that produced the APC in 2013 has everything at
stake if the party is allowed to continue to suffer electoral loses simply
because our current leaders are intolerant to one another and consequently not
able to manage processes of candidate selection within the party. In addition to Chief Akande, the
Committee has very refutable members who have played very important roles
during the merger negotiations of our legacy parties in 2013. I am very
confident that these refutable team of very selfless leaders should be given
all the support required to ensure that they succeed. How can we support the
Chief Akande Committee to succeed? I think the starting point has to be an
appeal to the Comrade Oshiomhole-led NWC, who facilitated the formation of the
Chief Akande Committee to convene a meeting of the appropriate organ of the
party – National Executive Council (NEC) or National Caucus where a decision
setting aside all the disciplinary actions at all levels of the party,
including the NWC can be taken. Somehow, such a meeting can also
serve as perhaps an icebreaking platform where some good pronouncements can
emerge, which can encourage all aggrieved leaders and party members to express
their disagreement and dissatisfaction at the way our party is being managed
since 2015. Steps must be taken at such meeting to ensure that criticising or
disagreeing with our leaders does not constitute an offence. If the Chief Akande Committee is to
succeed in this very crucial assignment, it must be positioned to set in motion
the process of rebuilding the party. The hard truth is that as it stands today,
APC is not a functional political party. None of its organs at any level is
meeting as provided in the party’s constitution. It is even debatable if our
membership register exists. At best, it will be the same old 2015 membership
register. With such reality, any effort
towards resolving our problems may have to commence with verifying the issue of
who our party members are. Somehow, this is also an issue that will test our
tolerance limits. For instance, to what extent can we accept members such as
Sen. Kabir Marafa in Zamfara who instituted the court case that led to
surrendering the victory of our party in the 2019 election to the PDP? Or to
what extent can we regard members in Ogun and Imo who contested the 2019
elections under different parties? However it is considered, it is a
simple case of responding to all these challenges based on capacity to forgive.
The only most important requirement is that each party must be able to accept
that mistakes have been made. This is where the Chief Akande Committee will
have to demonstrate its capacity and competence. It is a familiar calling to
Chief Akande. I am confident they can be able to discharge this function by
being able to listen to all actors without apportioning blame to any of the
actors. Just as they listen to each of the actors, they should be able to first
give some minimum conditions which each of the parties must meet. There is also the issue of
strengthening the confidence of party leaders at all levels based on provision
of good working conditions. As it is today, our party leaders at all levels
don’t have any verifiable working condition. This is partly the case because,
the party’s sources of income are still vaguely defined. Issues of membership
subscription are yet to be concluded. These need to be addressed. We can
resolve all existing disputes within the party, if these are left as they are
today, the same old problem will continue to rear their heads every election
season. The task of reconciliation in APC
has to have a life of its own. It is about commencing the process of rebuilding
the party. All our leaders should demonstrate very strong commitment. As part
of such commitment, initiative must be instituted to block all openings that
further exposes our leaders to more conflicts. One of such issues is the
question of refilling vacant positions in the NWC. Somehow, there appears to be
decisions by the Comrade Oshiomhole-led NWC to endorse successors from states
different from what was agreed at the last convention. If this is to go ahead,
there will be more disputes within the party. If this is the preferred option,
then it is safer to go for another convention where everything about leadership
of the party can be renegotiated, and new agreements reached. We may need to remind all leaders
about the appeal of President Muhammadu Buhari to the APC National Chairman,
Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and Governors on Friday, September 13, 2019, while
receiving Progressive Governors on a solidarity visit to congratulate him
following the Presidential Election Tribunal Ruling affirming the victory of
APC in the February 23, 2019 elections. In the words of the President “what I
will say to the chairman of the party and governors in return for your
congratulating me is to make sure you really institutionalise the party so that
when we leave, the party will continue to lead.’’ Our leaders at all levels need to
show respect to the President and begin to work to help him achieve his dream.
We can not be undermining ourselves to the extent of becoming our own trojan
horses, conceding hard won electoral victories to our opposition and imagine
that we are working to institutionalise the party. Where is the party
institution, when meetings are not taking place as provided in the party’s
constitution? How can we even imagine that our party can survive when our
membership records are in doubt and all that preoccupied our leaders is how to
position themselves to emerge as the so-called candidates for elections? This need to change if the vision of
the President is to be achieved. The task of the Chief Akande Reconciliation
Committee is to bring back sanity in the conduct of our leaders at all levels
such that it is possible to begin to work to ensure that the party, APC, is
rebuilt, with credible membership records, organs of the party at all levels
are meeting as provided by the provisions of the party’s constitution,
processes and procedures for candidates’ selections are clearly and
unambiguously defined and steps taken to ensure that all aspirants accept
results of primary elections conducted by the party, etc. Most of the steps needed to ensure
reconciliation on a permanent basis, will most likely come with more
challenges. For instance, how can we ensure that aspirants accept results of
primary when the party structures that will produce the voters is controlled by
a particular aspirant? These are practical questions that will require some
closer engagement with the Chief Akande Committee. Suffice it however to say
that challenges of institutionalisation require longer term initiatives driven
by patient and tolerant leaders. This is where the Comrade
Oshiomhole-led NWC need to make a choice as to whether it will align itself
with the vision of President Buhari of institutionalising the party or it want
to undermine it. To work for institutionalising the APC means that the NWC will
have to demonstrate high measure of tolerance. Perhaps, the tenure of the Chief
Akande Committee should serve as a transition period for the emergence of
perhaps a highly tolerant NWC. The reconciliation-disposed NWC,
even if led by Comrade Oshiomhole must refrain from making inflammatory public
commentaries. As much as possible, all statements coming from the party should
be made to reflect decisions of organs of the party, and the NWC in particular
must respect its jurisdictional limits as provided in the constitution of the
party when it comes to matters of issuing public statements. There are issues
that clearly require the decisions of superior organs such as NEC or National
Caucus for them to be credited to the party. Statements must not be reduced to
opinions of party leaders, important as that may be. Any action contrary to this would
undermine the work of the Chief Akande Reconciliation Committee and will be against
institutionalising the APC as a party that can survive beyond the tenure of
President Muhammadu Buhari as a ruling party. May God help all leaders unite
under the common vision of rebuilding the APC as an institutionalised party
capable of winning elections for all times!