 The social networking site,
Facebook, has pledged to partner with  Federal
Government to check the spread of fake news and disinformation  in the wake of the outbreak of the
Coronavirus in Nigeria. The Minister of Information and
Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, who announced this at a news briefing in Abuja on
Friday, said it’s obvious that the purveyors of fake news will scale up their
act to create panic and spread disinformation, following the confirmation of the
disease in Nigeria. “We know that at times like this,
purveyors of fake news and disinformation usually ramp up their acts. We are
therefore urging Nigerians not to fall for the antics of purveyors of fakes
news and disinformation “Fortunately, Facebook is working
with us in this regard. They have asked Nigerians to report any false or
misleading report on Facebook and Instagram pages so they can immediately bring
them down. “They have also assured us that they
are taking preemptive action to remove any false or harmful messages about this
epidemic and public health in Nigeria 24/7. All that Nigerians are required to
do is to flag any false or misleading report on the epidemic and Facebook will remove
any such report,” he said. The Minister said media agencies of
the Federal Ministry of Information and Culture, like the NTA, FRCN, NAN, and
VON, have been directed to intensify their ongoing sensitization and
enlightenment campaigns to arm Nigerians with the necessary information to stay
well. He said measures being taken by the
agencies include enlightenment jingles on radio and television, up-to-date
reports on the efforts being made by Nigerian health authorities to ensure
proper screening at the nation’s gateways and also handle possible cases,
continued airing of documentaries on the disease by the NTA and SMS sensitization
messages being sent to Nigerians by the News Agency of Nigeria. Alhaji Mohammed said the National
Orientation Agency (NOA), with itswide reach (offices in all the 774 local
governments), is pushing the various sensitization/enlightenment programmes to
all the nooks and crannies of the country by translating the campaign to the
major indigenous languages to expand their
reach. He added that Features on the disease
(prevention, treatment, etc.) are also being written and disseminated. The Minister therefore appealed to
all Nigerians not to panic, as the Government is well-equipped to detect and
handle any possible case or cases.