The African Development Bank (AfDB)
has clarified the debts incured by Africa. AfDB made this known in a statement
by its Communication and External Relations Department on Thursday. It explained that the World Bank,
with a more substantial balance sheet, had significantly larger operations in
Africa than the AfDB. According to the bank, the World
Bank’s operations approved for Africa in the 2018 fiscal year amounted to 20.2
billion dollars compared to 10.1 billion dollars by AfDB. “With regard to Nigeria and South
Africa, the World Bank’s outstanding loans for the 2018 fiscal year to both
countries stood at 8.3 billion dollars and 2.4 billion dollars, respectively. “In contrast, the outstanding
amounts for the AfDB Group to Nigeria and South Africa were 2.1 billion dollars
and 2.0 billion dollars, respectively, for the same fiscal year,” it said. The bank was reacting to a report
credited to the World Bank’s President, David Malpass, who said Multilateral
Development Banks, including the AfDB, had a tendency to lend too quickly and
in the process, add to the continent’s debt problems. The AfDB faulted the claim and
described it as misleading, inaccurate and not fact based. The bank noted that such report
undermines its integrity and governance systems, and by incorrectly insinuated
that it operated under different standards from the World Bank. It stated that such notion went
against the spirit of multilateralism and collaborative work between the banks. “For the record, the AfDB maintains
a very high global standard of transparency. In the 2018 Publish What You Fund
report, our institution was ranked the 4th most transparent institution,
globally. “The Bank provides a strong
governance programme for our regional member countries that focuses on public
financial management, better and transparent natural resources management,
sustainable and transparent debt management and domestic resource mobilisation. “We have spearheaded the issuance of
local currency financing to several countries to mitigate the impacts of
foreign exchange risks, while supporting countries to improve tax collection
and tax administration. “As well as leveraging pension funds
and sovereign wealth funds to direct more monies into financing development
programmes, especially infrastructure. “The AfDB Legal Support Facility
(ALSF) supports countries to negotiate terms of their royalties and taxes to
international companies, and terms of their non-concessional loans to some
bilateral financiers. We have been highly successful in doing so,” it explained. The bank said its 2020 African
Economic Outlook, at the end of June 2019, put total public debt in Nigeria
amounted to 83.9 billion billion, 14.6 per cent higher than the year before. It stated that the debt represented
20.1 per cent of GDP, up from 17.5 per cent in 2018. It added that of the total public
debt, domestic public debt amounted to 56.7 billion dollars while external
public debt was 27.2 billion dollars which represented 32.4 per cent of total
public debt. The bank disclosed that South Africa’s
national government debt was estimated at 55.6 per cent of GDP in 2019, up from
52.7 per cent in 2018. The AfDB noted that South Africa
raised most of its funding domestically, with external public debt accounting
for only 6.3 per cent of the country’s GDP. The Bank reiterated its commitment to continue to play critical roles in development efforts and in the aspirations of developing countries, most especially in Africa. (NAN).