 The Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), General Abayomi Gabriel Olonisakin has charged officers and men of the security forces to drop unnecessary ego and rivalry, and work together to secure Nigeria. General Olonisakin stated that, synergy and effective collaboration between security forces is imperative to succeed in the discharge of the onerous task of securing the nation against terrorism and insurgency. The CDS gave the charge while
speaking as the Guest of Honour at the maiden Joint Counter Terrorism and
Counter Insurgency (CTCOIN) Seminar for students of Senior Course 42 of the
Armed Forces Command and Staff College (AFCSC), Jaji, Kaduna State. He said,
the seminar themed “Enhancing Jointness in CTCOIN Operations through
Collaboration” is very apt and timely considering the enormous roles currently
being played by the Armed Forces and other security agencies in confronting the
various security challenges bedeviling our dear nation. According to him, “there is no doubt
that our security forces require synergy and effective collaboration to succeed
in the discharge of the onerous task of securing the nation. “The required
synergy transcends beyond the three services of the armed forces to the
paramilitary and even NGOs and other stakeholders in our various theatre of
operation. This synergy is essential and vital to achieving our common
objective of securing Nigeria. It will also help in formulating policies and
assist the armed forces in its operations,”he said. Addressing the students who are in
the rank of Major and its equivalent, the CDS said, as future field commanders,
it is essential for them to recognise the need for effective synergy among all
stakeholders. “Therefore, you must all display maturity and jettison all the
hindrances to synergy and cooperation, such as ego and rivalry. “I understand that, before now, the
Seminar was organized at the academic departmental level. In the wisdom of the
leadership of the College and in tandem with the realities of contemporary
security challenges in the country, the need to have a joint seminar was
conceptualised. “It is believed that with this
coming together, shared experiences and cross-fertilizations of ideas would be
enhanced. Let me therefore commend the Commandant and his management team for
this initiative that is aimed at enhancing jointness among the Armed Forces and
other security agencies as demanded by current realities. What we have today is
the product of long period of planning and deliberations. “Most importantly, the theme of the
Seminar is also directly linked to the objective of the Senior Course as well
as the thinking of the strategic leaders of the Country. “I also find the
Seminar most appropriate as majority of you students would be deployed to the
field in command and staff appointments upon graduation from the College. In
these appointments, you would be required to take critical decisions that would
determine the fate of officers and men under your command. “As tactical level commanders, you
have vital roles to play in the execution of your higher commander’s plan. You
will do this successfully by imbibing training, discipline and being flexible
in your thoughts and reasoning. “The College has therefore made
concerted efforts at selecting some notable commanders across the three
Services who are vast on CTCOIN and Joint Operations. Indeed, it is expected
that some of these commanders who have served or are still serving in their
respective commands will share their vast experience and knowledge especially
during the interactive session. “I therefore urge you to be open-minded and
inquisitive with them so as to derive the maximum benefits in furtherance of
the overall objective of the Seminar,” CDS said.

By Emergency Digest