The renewed
conversation about the menace of destitute and roaming about out-of-school
children in numbers estimated at 14 million in the predominantly Muslim north, has
once again thrown up the unresolved question of the relevance of the
traditional Almajiri system of learning in modern Nigeria. This growing army of
homeless, hungry, barely clothed and uneducated socio-economically dislocated
children is already an exploding time bomb that can no longer be rationalized
on the basis of the pursuit of Islamic religious knowledge. Having pondered on
the human tragedy that is the menace of out of school children, which has
unfortunately been bestowed the traditional religious bona fides of an
‘’Almajiri institution’’, I have decided to share some aspects of my childhood
experience growing up as a Muslim, in a Muslim family and in a predominantly
Muslim community. I was born in Okene, the homestead of
Nigeria’s ethnic Ebira people of Kogi state in north central Nigeria to a five
generation Muslim family of prominent Islamic scholars. Looking at the numerous
mosques adorned with minarets and capped with domes that dot the entire
landscape of Okene and environs, from which five times a day, the voice of the
muezzin is heard intermittently blaring out calls to the Muslim faithful to
obligatory prayers, one may not realize that the religion of Islam arrived here
only less than two centuries ago. Islam had earlier reached the old Kanen Borno
Empire in the present north eastern corner of Nigeria as early as the 11th
century and in the ancient Hausa city states of Nigeria’s North West by the 15th
century from the Muslim north of Africa. However, the successful
repelling and crushing of invading Muslim Fulani Jihadi forces from the Emirate
of Bida around 1885 by an alliance of Ebira tribal warrior chieftains in an
encounter that was recorded in oral history as ‘’ireku ajinonoh’’ [Ajinomoh
wars], delayed the arrival of Islam in Ebira land from the 19th
century to early 20th century. The existence of a strong guild of
blacksmiths amongst the Ebira people of Okene whose excellent iron smelting
skills qualifies as one of the most advanced in Black Africa, provided superior
weapons to a war like people that were famous for their mastery of archery. And
with a rugged mountainous terrain, which proved treacherous for the invading
Calvary of mounted horse men from the Emirate of Bida, the Ebira warriors who
were fighting from mountain tops secured a decisive victory when they routed
the enemy under a hail of burning spears and arrows. Following the failed military expedition of
what would have amounted to compulsory conscription into the religion of Islam of
my ancestors by Jihadi forces through conquest, annexation and forcefully incorporation
of their lands into the Muslim Fulani Sokoto Empire, Islam a religion of peace
eventually arrived Ebira land through the peaceful Da’wah mission of Islamic
scholars from the nearby Ilorin Emirate. Within a few years of the arrival in
Okene town of the peaceful Da’wah mission from the Emirate of Ilorin in the
early years of the 20th century the religion of Islam will spread
fast with majority of the people willingly and without compulsion converting
from being animists to Muslims. Over a century
and a half later, Okene is today a predominantly Muslim town with most families
having an Islamic heritage spanning five generations, which has seen a near
absolute substitution of ancestral traditions, customs and norms with puritan
Islamic Prophetic traditions as evidenced in deeply religious way of life of
the people. In addition to the general Islamic way of life of the people, Okene
will emerge a leading centre of learning and dissemination of Islamic religious
knowledge in northern Nigeria with hundreds of mosques and Madrasahs located in
every nook and cranny of Ebira land that over the years have groomed
individuals from childhood to adulthood in literacy in Arabic for Islamic
studies. Thence begins my Almajiri story. The term
Almajiri is a Hausa corrupted version of the Arabic root word, Al-muhajirun, which
connotes a migrant [student, scholar, worker] etc. And because the Quran, the
hadiths and other ancillary sources of the tenets and practices of Islam are
written in Arabic, a minimum level of literacy in this important to our faith
language is required of us Muslims. This requirement necessitated a religious
culture of young children leaving home to study Arabic and Islamic studies at
the feet of prominent Islamic scholars in Hausa land and the Kanem Borno areas.
It is this class of children that were originally referred to as Almajiri. However, unlike in the days of old, I didn’t
have to migrate from my place of my birth to fulfil this basic requirement of
minimum literacy in Arabic language for Islamic studies and religious practices.  Desiring of a good life for me, just like
every other responsible parent, my father simultaneously enrolled me at the age
of four, in a catholic mission primary school [one of two private schools in
the whole of my community] and a Madrasah located right inside my family
compound under the supervision of my grand uncle, Mall Sadiku. Every morning on
week days, after my morning meal at 7:00am, I will leave for school from home
and by 1:00pm closing time I am headed back home. After my afternoon meal, I
will usually follow my father, to the mosque for Zuhr congregational prayers after
which I will walk into the adjoining building that served as our Madrasah to
commence the day’s business. Like me, other
children in the community were simultaneously enrolled in formal school system
as well as in the nearest Madrasahs to their respective homes by their parents
or guardians, who similarly fed, clothed and sheltered them with care and love.
Significantly, my grand uncle and teacher, Mall Sadiku didn’t have to send us
to the street to beg for alms for his sustenance because as a certified Arabic
and Islamic scholar, he was a gainfully employed public  school teacher whose dedication to impacting
knowledge on us was just an act of Ibadah [worship] with the expected reward in
the hereafter. By the age of
six I could read and right in simple English and Arabic text and was due for
progression to the next stage of studying the Quran proper. To this end, I was
transferred from the Madrasah in my family compound to a nearby Quranic school
that was a walking distance of less than 100 metres from home under tutelage of
another prominent Islamic scholar, who like my grand uncle, was also known as
Mall Sadiku. My new teacher, Mall Sadiku was a strict disciplinarian who unlike
my grand uncle wasn’t going to indulge me in any way and he made me work hard
at my Quranic studies. Throughout my studies at the feet of Mallam Sadiku, who
was not paid any kobo by our parents for his invaluable services never sent any
of the children under his care out on the streets with begging bowls for alms
and food. The few times some of our parents brought food items as sadaqa to the
Madrasah, it was usually shared among all children including those from whose
homes the charity came. This was because
Mallam Sadiku was as self-respecting hardworking tailor who eked out a living
making garments for people. My beloved Mallam Sadiku who was married to one
wife with whom he raised small family would usually seat behind his sewing
machine peddling for his income from morning till late afternoon when he will
take a break to say his prayers and thereafter, supervise our studies. And from
his modest income, Mall Sadiku was able to feed, clothe and shelter his family
while also sending his own children to formal institutions of learning to
acquire education. Discernably, Mall Sadiku deemed his dedication to our religious
studies as an act of worship, which will be rewarded in the hereafter. Away, from the Madrasah, I will further my
Arabic and Islamic studies in a publicly funded secondary school attended,
which has provision for a rich curriculum of the subject. To God be the glory I
eventually made a distinction in Islamic Religious Studies in my West Africa
School Cert Exam; a feat I attained without having to roam the streets of Okene
hungry, homeless and destitute. I have subsequently built on my strong Almajiri
foundation to continuously develop myself into a better Muslim throughout my
adult life. Therefore, the
menace of 14 million out-of-school children otherwise given the honorific
‘’Almajiri institution’’ is a function of a uniquely northern Nigerian Muslim
culture, which holds education in contempt in a without parallel in the larger
Muslim world. The human tragedy of out of 14million out-of-school children does
not qualify as an Almajiri institution but rather, an oppressive system that
can best be described as a crime against the humanity of these children by
their parents and a society that condones such evil of irresponsible parenting.
A rudimentary knowledge of Arabic and Islamic studies is only for the purposes of
enhancement of the practices of the Muslim religion that should never be a
substitute for education or skills acquisition as they are not mutually
exclusive.