 Apart
from being a worthy day to set the stage for a productive week, for some years
now, my Mondays (and of course Thursdays!) have proved as moments of spiritual
and intellectual reflections. NLC nominated me to attend Senior Executive
Course  (SEC 27) at the National Institute for Policy and Strategic
Studies (NIPSS), Kuru, Jos  in 2005. I had many enduring “take- aways”
from the model National Institute which since 1979 serves as a high level
centre for reflection, research and dialogue for a better Nigeria.
The most valued “take- away” however is the seemingly intangible but
everlasting new relationships I cultivated. I came to appreciate the importance
of Monday and Thursday fasting as encouraged by the Sunna courtesy of my course
mate: Alhaji M D. Abubakar mni, former Inspector General of  Police of the
Federal Republic who often observes them. During the course duration, he hosted
fellow course mates to Iftar at his chalet on the two days for those who
observed the Sunnah worship and even for those who did not. Since then, I have
been having some Ramadan feeling twice a week even before the cherished Holy
month of Ramadan. Often if am not at home with friends and family members in
Kaduna, I still enjoy the immense generosity of Alhaji M D Abubakar and his
family for regular Monday/Thursday break fast  in Abuja. Today, I
look  forward to Mondays with spiritual and intellectual excitement which
has in turn  improved my productivity, focus, thought process,  and
social balance in life. Last 
Wednesday,  February 19, 2020 Governor Babagana Zulum  in a statewide
broadcast in  Maiduguri entitled “FIGHT, FAST AND PRAY’ declared today Monday the 24th of February 2020 “a day of
devotion to pray for the return of peace in Borno.” He   appealed “for
the sacrifices of all other well-meaning friends and associates of Borno who
can, to join .. in fasting” , “for the restoration of peace in Borno State and
rest of Nigeria”. Just like the Governor, I fast today in solidarity with
the good people of the state. May Allah accept as Ibada for Bornu state and the
Federal Republic as a whole. I agree with the Governor that “ some observers
may rightly argue that it is  strange” to call for prayers to fight
insurgency. Some might even see this move as an act of official resignation in
the face of seeming addictive violence and strident calls for counter fire
power. But that position is simplistic and unhelpful. The Governor needs not be
apologetic in seeking spiritual heeling through prayers. First we must see
religion beyond the simplistic as the insurgents had tried to while 
mobilizing cheap gullible opinion. Religion is a communal activity about peace.
Religion must be liberated from the personalization and privatization of the
sectarian terrorists. The tragedy of the Boko Haram crisis is the serial
criminal and mischievous invocation of the name of God to kill,  attack as
witnessed recently  in renewed assaults around Chibok and dastardly 
ambush at Auno town in Konduga where humans  “..were atrociously set
ablaze, amongst them, an infant and nursing mother.” The divisive and toxic
narrative of  faiths must give way to the sobering, inspirational and
healing discourse that prayers represent.  Prayer as described in the Holy
books  means “calling on, addressing, making a fervent request,
asking for help from God ” to heal souls not to burn humans alive.  I
agree with author  Harun Yahya that the methodology of terrorism is to
make  whole communities live in fear and alarm. Today’s prayer manifestation
damns fear and shows that only Allah deserves fear not the bandits. Of special
importance is  Zulum’s call for Nigerians to once again  take the
advantage of today’s prayer to  remember “fellow citizens who have either
lost their loved ones or confronted the agony of watching loved ones on
hospital beds” due to the activities of insurgents. The point cannot be
overstated. It was  the exclusive insensitive uncaring society of the well-having
of the few elite, instead of the well-being of the vast impoverished masses
that nurtured insurgency in the first place. Inclusive sustainable development
and caring community is the key to terminate terrorism. There is enough for
everybody’s need if we care and minimize the greed of the few. There is no doubt that this challenging times will come to
pass. And it would be recorded that Governor Zulum and his predecessor, Senator
Khashim Shettima commendably strived to build inclusive caring state through
massive investments in education, road construction, massive housing projects
and human capital. I bear witness that Governor Zulum less than 10
months in office has  promoted activist governance  with as many as
100 projects in 100 days, some including completion of the projects of his
predecessor, all within the 10 Point Agenda of his administration (2019-2023).
His prompt intervention at disasters points is remarkable. Governor Zulum as a
member is a pride of the National Institute.  It’s time that these
state-led landmark achievements  capture our imagination more than the
cowardly occasional attacks of the terrorists. I just read a posted brief
review of a new book by  Dr Kate Meagher, (an Associate Professor in
Development Studies, London School of Economics) entitled Who Shall
Overcome?: Islamic Extremism in Northern Nigeria,   co-edited with the
late Abdul Raufu Mustapha. It’s time to work for a new development paradigm for
Nigeria as much as we must worship to put an end to insurgency. “Overcoming
Boko Haram” Kate points out  “calls for ‘whole of society’ solutions
to the insurgency, based on a ‘whole of society’ understanding of the conflict.
This involves getting Nigerian and international policy makers to face their
own demons: corruption, and the broken promises of liberal modernity and market
reforms, and counter-terrorism protocols that are inappropriate to the
realities of Muslim majority societies. More socially-grounded policy thinking
offers a new way forward based on evidence rather than Islamophobia. Policy
alternatives include appropriate regulation rather than securitization of
religion; job creation programmes centred on the needs of northern Nigerian
youth rather than foreign investors, and socially appropriate paths of gender
empowerment rather than imposing Western gender norms. While appropriate
military measures are required to end the insurgency, the importance of more
inclusive statecraft and economic policy cannot be over-emphasized.” Issa
Aremu mni.