 How the Fifth Generation (5G) networks
will impact Nigeria’s socio-economic landscape and the inherent challenges to
the deployment, will form the fulcrum of a special session to be hosted by the
Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) at the Social Media Week Lagos (SMWL)
2020. The NCC Special Session will hold at
1:00 p.m. in the Main Stage on Day 4 – Thursday, 27 – of the 5-Day event taking
place from 24-28 February, 2020 at Landmark Event Centre, Victoria Island,
Lagos. As a regulator of the country’s fastest
growing and most dynamic sector – the ICT sector –  the Nigerian
Communications Commission will mount the stage to steer a conversation focused
on: “Fifth Generation (5G) Networks Deployment: Socio-economic Benefits
and Challenges.” The Executive Vice Chairman and the
Chief Executive Officer, Prof Umar Garba Danbatta is expected to lead
discussion  at the event, which will focus on the Fifth Generation
networks from different perspectives. The non-commercial first Proof of Concept
(PoC) trial of Fifth Generation (5G) Networks took place in the country in
November 2019. As the
Commission prepares the ground for 5G networks launch, it continues to take
several steps aimed at continuously improving quality of service (QoS) both for
voice and data services. Some
of the steps include monthly engagement sessions with operators on QoS,
quarterly QoS Industry working group meeting, engagement with the Nigerian
Governors Forum to align right of way charges with that agreed courtesy
 the National Economic Council resolution; and engagement with individual
governors to reduce and eliminate the incidences of site shutdown by state
government agencies. The steps also include instituting
benchmarking drive test across the country to measure performance of each
operator in a given area and identify coverage gaps with a view to bridging
them; instituting new QoS measurement mechanisms for assessing the QoS
performance of operators to ensure measured performance more closely aligns
with subscriber experiences across all states of the federation; deployment of
QoS measurement systems at the Commission to enable near real-time assessment
of QoS across the country from the Commissions office, among others Therefore, the panel session at Social
Media Week, Lagos (SMWLagos) is sponsored by NCC to provide more information, education
and knowledge required by telecom stakeholders and citizens, and to enable
participants to raise critical questions that may be agitating their minds. The Social Media Week Lagos, where NCC
has become an annual distinctive corporate participant and programming partner
for five consecutive years, is Africa’s largest digital technology and
innovation conference. The seventh edition of the conference, which held in
2019, was attended by over 20,000 people. The programme also had an “online
social media reach of 557 million”. The event brings together thought leaders,
key stakeholders and the public to explore issues that are important for the
modern world. The Social Media Week Lagos 2020 tagged:
HUMAN.X, is thematised on the centrality of humanity and “experience-driven
approach to innovation across industries, communities and the continent.”