As part of efforts geared toward bequeathing a
highly skillful and professional Police Force to the nation, the Nigeria Police
Force has established a National Institute for Police Studies. The Institute,
which is an affiliate of the Nigeria Police Academy, Wudil Kano, is temporarily
located within the Police Staff College, Jos and will provide police personnel,
alongside other members of the national security community with needed skills
and knowledge on safety and security. The Institute will work with academic partners,
security agencies, international police organizations and the general public
to, among other things, produce and commission original research on priority
for policing and public safety; collate and share the best available evidence
assessment, and also provides strategic man-power development for police and
security officers of the rank of Deputy Commissioner of Police or its
equivalent in other security agencies. Meanwhile, Professor Olu Ogunsakin has been
appointed as the Director of the Institute. An erudite Professor of Police
Studies, Olu Ogunsakin holds a Ph.d in Police Studies from the University of
Exeter, UK; MA in Criminal Justice, University of Detroit, Michigan, USA; PGC
in Public Mediation, University of Toronto, Canada; BSc in Human Resource
Development, University of Detroit, Michigan, USA. He was a Senior Adviser to
the City of London Police and responsible for developing standardized
operational protocols for over 10years. He was also the lead consultant on
security and policing to the Department of International Development, British
Council, Nigeria. He is presently the Technical Adviser to the Inspector
General of Police, Nigeria Police Force. While congratulating the Director of the Institute, the Inspector General of Police, IGP M.A Adamu, NPM, mni expressed strong belief that Prof Olu Ogunsakin will bring to bear his wealth of experience in the field of Policing and Security matters in the management of the Institute. The IGP further notes that in addition to sharpening the skills of Strategic Police Officers and senior officers from other security agencies, the Institute will help in finding solutions to emerging security challenges in the country.