Yiaga
Africa on Friday  marked 13 years of “
civic activism, community organizing and sustained advocacy for participatory
and representative democracy.” This
was disclosed in a statement by Samson Itodo,
Yiaga
Africa’s   Executive Director.He
noted that ,
“our vision of a democratic Africa where citizens assert their sovereignty
beyond voting during elections is far from being achieved” Itodo’s statement
reads in full: “Today we celebrate 13 years of civic activism, community
organizing and sustained advocacy for participatory and representative
democracy. From a student association at the University of Jos, Yiaga Africa is
evolving as a powerful movement of active citizens and changemakers who are
positively disrupting the political space and pushing the needle on democratic
accountability and governance in Africa. “This is made
possible through purposeful leadership, dedicated and hardworking staff, strong
organizational governance practices, stakeholder support and a culture of
learning and reflection. We appreciate all partners, friends, mentors and
members of our community for the solidarity, support, guidance and unshaken
faith in our dreams and the promise of democracy. You all are our greatest
asset. “As we turn 13, we
are reminded that our vision of a democratic Africa where citizens assert their
sovereignty beyond voting during elections is far from being achieved. Although
citizen satisfaction with democracy is dwindling, we are emboldened by their
continued preference for and commitment to democracy as exemplified by the
courage and resilience against poor governance, shrinking democratic space and
depreciating quality of elections. We commit to harness this resilience in our
quest to fix the fractured relationship between state and society. Democracy
must deliver development to the people and it begins with fixing our elections,
recruiting high quality public leaders, strengthening democratic institutions
and empowering citizens to hold public leaders to account. “As we look to a
future defined by intentionality, resilience and civic activism, we count on
your support, partnership and solidarity.”