Borno Governor, Professor Babagana Umara Zulum on Monday evening conveyed message of gratitude to Nigerians within and outside his state who joined in fasting and praying for an end to the boko haram insurgency. Zulum had in a statewide broadcast,
titled ‘We’ll fight, fast and pray’ on Wednesday declared one day fasting and
prayers for the people of Borno state with a call for other Nigerians to join.
Muslims and Christians across Borno fasted on Monday with prayers offered in
worship centres. In a message he tweeted on his
handle, Governor Zulum said: “I am not thanking fellow Nigerians
within and outside Borno State for fasting today. I know too well that such an
extreme act of worship could only have been done for the sake of God. I thank
Nigerians for the specific purpose behind today’s spiritual endeavour.  Today’s
fast, which sought and still seeks Allah’s merciful intervention for an end to
the Boko Haram insurgency, was largely carried out by many Nigerians out of
empathy for the people of Borno state in particular, and for other parts of our
dear country. In worship to Allah and for Borno’s sake, many Nigerians
throughout the day, voluntarily abstained from food, water, and other personal
affairs with abiding faith and hope that we regain enduring peace. Nothing I
write or say can adequately convey the debt of our profound gratitude to all
Nigerians”. The Governor‘s message also
addressed citizens of his state. “To the good people of Borno State,
I am grateful to God for having you all by my side. Today, I saw firsthand, how
majority of citizens, Muslims and Christians, devoted themselves to fasting and
prayers in mosques and churches. I monitored many acts of worship and charity.
We did all of these for our sake and the sake of our brothers and sisters more
directly affected by the insurgency. I am proud of all of you who joined in our
collective acts today. I do solemnly reaffirm the pledge I made on May 29th
2019, that by the grace of God, I will, together with all stakeholders,
continue to give more than my very best in our shared and determined effort to
overcome the Boko Haram challenge and put our state on the path of sustainable
recovery, growth and development. May the gracious and merciful Allah accept
our acts of worship; may He answer our supplications which should not end with today’s
fasting, and may He answer the supplications being offered on our behalf by
many Nigerians!” Governor Zulum said.