 The
Southwest Regional Security Operation code-named Operation Amotekun has finally
been adopted by Governors of all states in the Southwest and the Inspector
General of Police (IGP). The
Southwest Governors’ Forum told the IGP Muhammed Adamu in Lagos on Thursday
that, the development would spring up fresh efforts to secure local
communities. The
Forum spoke through its chairman and Governor of Ondo State, Arakunrin Rotimi
Akeredolu, SAN, at the Southwest Security Meeting on Community Policing
convened at the instance of the IGP. The
meeting was held on Thursday at the Banquet Hall of the Lagos State Government
in Alausa. At
the end of the meeting, which held for about two hours behind closed doors, the
IGP and representatives of each State okayed the framework of Southwest
Regional Security Network (otherwise known as Operation Amotekun), but
initiative will not be run as a regional security operations, as initially
suggested. It will be state-led effort, the IGP said. Also,
the meeting ratified community policing model proposed by the IGP and the
initiative would be complementing Operation Amotekun and conventional police
operations in all local communities. The
host and Governor of Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, said the security
gathering was part of extensive meetings with the police leadership on adopting
new strategies and initiatives towards securing lives and property of people in
the Southwest. Lagos
Government, Sanwo-Olu said, will continue to champion initiatives and
frameworks that continue to provide support and logistics required for effective
policing in the region. Akeredolu
said the meeting was of “great importance” to the people of Southwest,
confirming that the Forum had a fruitful discussion with the IGP. Speaking
on the outcome, Akeredolu said: “The Governors of Southwest and the IGP have
held a very fruitful discussion and it is clear now to all of us that,
community policing, which the Nigeria Police is anchoring is one that will
benefit all of us. We have chosen that we will embrace community in its
entirety. “In
addition, we have spoken and we want everyone to know that, Amotekun was not
conceived as a regional police, but a state-based security outfit. We have come
out of this meeting happy and we have agreed on the resolution. We have shed
lights on dark areas and we are on the same page with the police with respect
to these issues.” IGP
Adamu substantiated Akeredolu’s claim, saying the participants at the meeting
had fine-tuned Operation Amotekun and adopted it to be state-led initiative and
not regional. He
said: “This is the second meeting we have held with the Governors of Southwest
region concerning the creation of Operation Amotekun. The just concluded
meeting was to discuss and fine-tune Amotekun. Out conclusion is what the
chairman of Southwest Governors’ Forum has explained. “Amotekun
is not a regional security outfit. Every state has one form of security
arrangement, whether it is vigilante or neighbourhood watch that are working
security agencies in the states to fight crime. Amotekun is not different from
these initiatives. We have agreed that community policing strategy be infused
into the Amotekun structure, so that policing will be initiative of the
community members.” Adamu
said the police would be part of the recruitment, training and deployment of
personnel to be assigned for Amotekun operations, adding that the initiative
would work in complementary with community policing model. The
IGP said policing must start with the public, urging members of the public to
unite and form an alliance against criminals in their communities. He
said the police would support the residents’ effort to keep their communities
safe, but added any decision to be taken must come from the public. The
IGP praised Lagos Government for adopting a community-led policing arrangement,
saying Lagos remained an example where “a good structure” of community policing
had been effective.