 Ekiti State Governor  and Chairman of Nigerian Governors’ forum, Dr
Kayode Fayemi has described the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) as an exemplary
public institution that has impacted positively on the management of the
Nigerian roads, saying Nigerians have much to learn from the organisation. He
stated this on Thursday, during his courtesy visit to the FRSC National
Headquarters, Abuja. According to a press statement
issued by Corps Commander Bisi Kazeem, the FRSC Head of Public Education, the
Governor was at the FRSC National Headquarters as a special guest at the
decoration ceremony of Deputy Corps Marshal Kayode Fanola to his new rank. He
commended the Corps Marshal, Dr Boboye Oyeyemi for bringing his wealth of
experience in road safety management to bear in his management of the FRSC.
This, he said has impacted positively on the successes recorded by the Corps
within the last few years of his Management. Speaking on the challenges of road
safety in Nigeria, the Governor lauded the various innovations introduced by
the Corps to ensure that the Nigerian roads become safer and convenient for
economic activities to thrive. While assuring of sustained support of the state
governments to issues of road safety in the country, he stressed that all the
States in the federation share  the same value for human safety and
security and would work assiduously towards the success of road safety programmes
in the country. Dr Kayode further noted that the
inauguration of the National Road Safety Advisory Council (NaSAC) following the
approval of the Nigeria Road Safety Strategy document was novel in the campaign
for safer road environment in the country. He added that the initiative affords
governors ample opportunity to participate actively in policy formulation and
execution of road safety programmes, restating that the Governors would remain
committed to the campaign to ensure road safety in the country through
collaboration with the FRSC. Dr Kayode particularly commended the
FRSC for its massive investments in information and communication technology,
saying the advancement made by the Corps over the years was a fallout of its
heavy reliance on technological tools. On the establishment of the National
Traffic Radio (NTR), the Governor applauded the initiative, noting that with
the growing need for prompt dissemination of information on road conditions
across the country and calls for emergencies, the need for the radio platform
by the Corps cannot be overemphasised. He therefore, promised to support the
radio station to achieve its goals of publicising issues of road safety. As part of the Governor’s activities
at the FRSC National Headquarters, he was taken round the FRSC facilities
including the Information Technology Centre and the National Traffic Radio
studio before joining the Chairman of the FRSC Board, Mallam Bukhari 
Bello and the Corps Marshal to decorate the newly appointed Deputy Corps Marshal,
Kayode Fanola who is representing the South-West geopolitical zone at the FRSC
Management.