 By Haruna Salami No doubt,  the major
challenge in the Niger Delta region of Nigeria and Ogoni land in particular is
environmental degradation due to activities of oil companies. This explains why a Bill for an Act to provide for the
establishment of the Federal University of Environment Technology, Saakpenwa
Ogoni received overwhelming support to pass second reading in the Senate on
Wednesday  and referred to Committee on
Tertiary Education and TETFund for public hearing. The sponsor of the Bill, 
Senator Mpigi Barinada Rivers South-East told Newsdiary that 108
senators supported the Bill because from the minority point of view, the Ogoni
people are people that have been oppressed. He said leading the debate on the floor of the Senate with
overwhelming support of 108 senators supporting the Bill, because he laid it
directly to his colleagues that he needed their help. “We are one of the
people that have been oppressed and if we are asking this from the Nigerian
nation, I don’t think we are asking too much”. “All Nigerians are aware of the plight of Ogoni people,
what they passed through and what they have seen in terms of environmental
degradation over the years and decades. It’s not all about clean up, but what
happens after the clean up of Ogoni. There must be peace and reconciliation. “The man you see here, 
Ken Sarowiwa (pointing at the man’s picture) happened to be freedom
fighter and a foremost environmentalist. All Ogoni people have been talking
about is the degradation of their land. 
Today everybody is talking about climate change, ecological problems
here and there.  As an Ogoni man and
someone from Niger Delta and as a Nigerian, the issue of environment needs
advanced thinking ahead of what is happening now.  This informed the need for researchers,  since university is not just going to school,
it’s also thinking about the way and foremost pattern on how to improve on
modern technology and that is why we are looking at modest and modern
University of Technology to be sited in Ogoni. The choice of Ogoni is with Nigeria in perspective with
Saakpenwa as the place President Muhammadu Buhari was handed the United Nations
Environment Programme, UNEP report on Ogoni clean up which led to the
implementation of the UNEP report. Senator Barinada said as “an Ogoni man and as a senator
representing the people, in as much as I’m happy,  the gods at home are happy”.