… Says Nigeria is Africa’s Leading Exporter of LNG The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC)
will aggressively expand its domestic gas footprint with the delivery of the
Escravos-Lagos Pipeline System (ELPS) II to double capacity from 1.1billion
standard cubic feet of gas (BSCF) to 2.2BSCF and the OB3 gas pipeline to
connect East and the West. Group
Managing Director of the corporation, Mallam Mele Kyari, made this known at the
ongoing 4th Sub-Saharan Africa
International Petroleum Exhibition and Conference (SAIPEC) in Lagos. Speaking on the
conference theme: “Oil & Gas as an Enabler for Economic
Transformation in Sub Saharan Africa”, Mallam Kyari stated that the NNPC would
commence the construction of the Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano gas pipeline in Q2 2020
to serve as an enabler to further boost the economic activities of the country. Represented by the Chief Operating Officer (COO), Gas
and Power, Engr. Yusuf Usman, Mallam Kyari stated that the recent passage of
the Deep Offshore Act into law has set the Industry on the path of irreversible
growth. Mallam Kyari posited that Nigeria as Africa’s leading
exporter of LNG and the 4th in the World after Qatar, Australia and
Malaysia, was ready to capture more LNG market with the Final Investment
Decision of the NLNG Train 7. “Oil and gas resources have remained the major source
of revenue that has kept the wheels of Nigeria moving for over five (5)
decades. Oil, as we all know, has served as key enabler to the economic
transformation of many nations like Norway, Saudi Arabia, UAE, Qatar and many
other oil resources dependent nations,” Mallam Kyari submitted. According to him, it is not a new story that most
resource dependent nations rely on their dominant natural resource to drive
other key economic initiatives and activities, noting that this is true of
Nigeria and many other countries represented at the conference. He informed that the connection between Oil and Gas
Industry and the Nigeria economy was intricate, stressing that the state of
every aspect of the nation’s economic and social life revolved around the
hydrocarbon resource. Mallam Kyari called for more hard work to diversify
the economy away from over dependence on oil revenues in order to avoid the
risk of market fluctuations that may impact the nation’s fiscal equation. “The current Government under the leadership of
President Muhammadu Buhari has made it a priority to ensure revenues from oil
and gas resources are utilized to support the emergence and growth of other
non-oil sectors of the economy. In order to achieve this objective, it means more
money will be required from the oil and gas to fund new economic projects
outside the Oil and Gas Industry,” the GMD stated. Mallam Kyari said the NNPC, as a national Oil Company,
had been repositioned to support the vision of Mr. President for economic
diversification, even as he maintained that in the Upstream, the corporation
targeted increasing oil production from 2.3million barrels per day to 3million
bbl/day and at the same time working with partners to significantly reduce cost
per barrel in order to improve the flow of the needed revenue to support
economic diversification. He said the NNPC was encouraging private investors to
join the train that traverses the oil and gas value chain to create more value
and job opportunities for the nation’s teaming youths. Mallam Kyari informed that Nigeria was
still a net importer of petroleum products due to the current state of NNPC
refineries and the long absence of private investment in the refining sector. He said the NNPC was inviting investors to
key into the revamp and expansion of domestic refining capacity in order to
support the growth of the Downstream sector and guaranty energy security for
the nation. “We are progressing with the establishment of
condensate refineries to fast-track domestic supply of petroleum products. In
the same vein, the corporation would support the actualization of the
650Kbbl/day Dangote Refinery, as well as other private initiatives along this
line. Our plan is for Nigeria to become a net exporter
of petroleum products by 2023,” Mallam Kyari enthused. He said that NNPC was leveraging technology and
innovation to achieve the goal of building an energy company of global
excellence. The GMD implored all stakeholders to collaborate with
the corporation in an atmosphere that is beneficial to all and emplaces Nigeria
on the path of growth and development. In his opening
remarks, the Chairman of the Petroleum Technology Association of Nigeria
(PETAN), Mr. Bank-Anthony Okoroafor, applauded Mallam Kyari for being a true
friend of the Industry and called for deeper regional integration among African
Countries to boost the Continent’s economic activities. Highpoint of the
3-day conference was panel sessions, tour of the exhibition pavilions and presentation
of Award of Excellence to Mr. Okoroafor by the representative of the GMD, Engr.
Yusuf Usman.