By Jide Ojo Give me my Due Give me what is my rightful due, While I still live and breathe and
love For little I have of you When I am called from up above. No flowers gay upon my bier Will I require when I am gone If when I lived there was no cheer To boost me when my work was done. So, keep your violets sedate I’ll have the Roses whilst its bloom But should you choose to vacillate Shed not your tears to ease my doom. Dr Nnamdi Azikwe, Lincoln University 18 October 1929. Last Wednesday, February 12, 2020 was a red-letter day among Nigeria’s Civil Society and academia. This is because two of their own reached milestone ages. Amina Salihu, PhD clocked 50 years while Kole Shettima, PhD also attained 60 years. These two kind souls have a lot in common. Aside being birthdate mates having been born on February 12, they are both academics with doctorate degrees in Political Science, development workers, and are colleagues at MacArthur Foundation where Kole is the African Director and Amina is Senior Program Officer. Kole and Amina are both from Northern Nigeria, they are Muslims, mentors, authors, administrators, intellectual juggernauts and very unassuming and selfless individuals. I met the duo when I was  Programme Manager with Electoral Reform Network way back in 2003. Amina was then Programme Coordinator and head of Abuja Office of Centre for Democracy and Development. My office and hers were adjacent each other at the Nigerian Office of International Human Rights Law Group now known as Global Rights then at Maitama area of Abuja. Kole and my boss then, Professor Jibrin Ibrahim (Jibo) are close friends and he was a regular visitor to our office. In the course of time, our path has crossed at many conferences,
workshops, seminars and social gatherings. Both of them never cease to amaze me
by their intellectual depth and humility. These are individuals who have
impacted hundreds of lives including mine and yet still stayed humble and
unassuming. For those who have benefited from the free copy of my third book,
“Nigeria: Corruption and Opacity in Governance” which was presented to the
Nigerian public on January 16, 2020, the manuscript of that book was edited by
Amina Salihu and Ololade Bamidele while the funding for the publication  was from MacArthur Foundation hence the
ability to give out the copies free of charge. It was no wonder that hundreds of lives these gentleman and lady
have positively touched decided to honour them at a well-attended birthday bash
at the prestigious Transcorp Hilton in Abuja last Wednesday. It was a rainbow
coalition of sort with dignitaries from all walks of life led by the Deputy
Secretary General of the United Nations, our dear Amina Mohammed, former Minister
for Environment. The august occasion was chaired by highly cerebral and revered
academic, Prof. Adele Jinadu. Other Very Important Personalities in attendance
include Prof. Antonia Taiye Okoosi Simbine and Prof. Okey Ibeanu, both of whom
are National Commissioner at the Independent National Electoral Commission,
there was also the Senior Special Assistant to INEC chairman, Prof. Mohammed
Kuna. I also sighted Prof. Jideofor Adibe, Dr. Husseini Abdu, Country
Director of Planned International. Mr. Anwar Musa Rafsanjani, the Executive
Director of CISLAC, Dr. Otive Igbuzor, founder of Centre LSD now Chief of Staff
to Deputy Senate President, Ms. Idayat Hassan, Executive Director of CDD, Hajia
Saudatu Mahdi, MFR who read the citation of Dr Shettima, Mrs. Ene Obi who is
the Country Director of ActionAid Nigeria, Olaranrewaju Suraj of HEDA. Dr.
Chris Kwaja, Dr. Ukiwo Ukoha, Dr. Y.Z Yau of CITAD and Mr. Waziri Adio who is
the Executive Secretary of Nigeria Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative. At the celebration of Kole Shettima and Amina Salihu last Wednesday
were many media gurus and ace broadcasters including Ms. Kadaria Ahmed who was
former editor at NEXT newspaper and recently the anchor of The Core on Channels
TV, Augustine Okhiria Agbonsuremi formerly of Raypower now ED of PRIMOG and Mr.
VinMartin Ilo formerly of AIT now founder of Signature TV.   The icing on the cake for me at the night of
glitz and gklamour in honour of Dr. Kole Shettima was the meeting of my brother
and friend. former editor of THISDAY newspaper, subsisting columnist with
THISDAY on Sunday and now publisher of The Cable online newspaper, Simon
Kolawole. What a day! What a meeting! What an experience coming in physical
contact with someone you admire and have been in virtual communication with for
over a decade. Many thanks to Waziri Adio for the introduction. Truth be told, these two Nigerians, Kole Shettima and Amina Salihu,
are deserving of national honours for their contributions to national
development. My prayers to Kole at 60 and Amina at 50 is that may Allah
continue to guide you both, crown your noble efforts with resounding success
and meet you both at your point of needs. Cheers! Jide is the Executive Director of OJA Development Consult, author
and renowned Public Affairs Analyst.