The
Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development,
Hajiya Sadiya Umar Farouq, has assured the Bauchi State Government of the
Ministry’s support in reintegration of the Internally Displaced Persons. She
stated in her meeting with the Executive Governor of Bauchi State, His
Excellency, Senator Bala Mohammed and his delegation during their courtesy
visit to the Ministry in Abuja. The
Minister said it is the mandate of the ministry to move from conflict to early
recovery for displaced population based on the directives of President
Muhammadu Buhari, to move from rehabilitation, reconstruction and
reintegration, stating that she was glad with what she saw during her visit to
the state based on one on one interaction with the Internally Displaced
Persons. From
her assessment, she said that the Ministry is ready to live up to her
responsibility to Nigerians irrespective of tribal or party affiliation. Citing
the core mandate of the Ministry to coordinate all humanitarian activities in
the country as well as developing strategic disaster management and response,
she assured the Governor that the Ministry will work together with the Bauchi
State Focal Person on Social Investment Programme. Earlier,
the Bauchi State Governor, His Excellency Senator Bala Mohammed said that the
State approach to accommodate the Internally Displaced Persons is that of
integration. However, the State is soliciting the support of the Ministry on
the challenges of over-stretched clinics and primary healthcare centres as
majority of the Internally Displaced Persons live in the rural areas. The
Governor also requested the support of the Ministry in the provision of clean
drinking water, opportunity for the children of the Internally Dispalced
Persons to go to school as well as to provide means of transportation and
empowerment so that they can also feel the impact of good governance. The
Permanent Secretary of the Ministry, Tijjani Umar, in his response stated the
Ministry’s commitment  to doing the needful and also expressed his
enthusiasm at the ability of the Governor to hit the ground right on his
appointment. He said the Ministry will work with the Bauchi State Focal Person,
Amina Katagum, on Social Investment Program.