On Wednesday, President Buhari visited Maiduguri to
commiserate with the people over the Auno massacre that occurred Sunday night. Two
things happened during the visit. The people showed their anger at the
President by shouting and booing at him, screaming that they no longer support
him. Their anger reflected the conclusion they have reached that the President
and his security team have not been doing enough to address the security crisis
facing them. For his part, the President blamed the people and leaders of Borno
communities for not doing enough to support the Government’s efforts to improve
the security situation. He asserted that: “This Boko Haram or whoever they are,
cannot come up to Maiduguri or its environs to attack without the local
leadership knowing.” He told the people that if they had been making reports on
the movements of the insurgents to security agencies, the security situation
would have improved much more. The state of play therefore is that the people
of Borno, and indeed the people of Nigeria are convinced that the Government
and its security agencies are not doing enough to tackle growing insecurity
while the President believes it’s the fault of the people. The Constitution however is clear, it is the
responsibility of the State and its agencies to provide for the security of the
people so it is abdication of responsibility to turn around and blame the
people. The anger of the people of Borno was not just based on the fact that
over 30 people were killed on Sunday, people have been killed by the insurgents
regularly for the past decade. The anger was based on strong suspicion that
people were deliberately lined up and left for slaughter. Auno village is the
main gateway to Maiduguri which is just over 24 kilometres away. The military
had set up a curfew at the village to stop travellers entering the city after
6pm, the time they normally close the barrier for the day. On Sunday however,
they closed the barrier at 4.30 pm thus blocking travellers who had calculated
they would arrive in good time to beat the curfew. The closure of the barrier over an hour before the
normal time meant there was a bigger crowd than was normally the case. Having
created this large crowd, the military then left them there and went to
Maiduguri. Later in the evening, the insurgents came and the killings began.
According to reports, the attackers crept out in large numbers around 10 p.m. and
opened fire on people while they were sleeping inside vehicles. They also burnt
numerous buses and cars with people inside them and those who tried to run were
chased and killed. Many other people were kidnapped and taken away. The military blamed the killings of the travellers on
the victims saying that they had defied the curfew placed on the route linking
Borno and Yobe states but did not add they had blockaded the route before the
normal curfew time. Governor Babagana Zulum of Borno State was clear in his
comments that the military should take the blame for its inability to protect
the highway and citizens. He added that: “Since my inauguration as the governor
of Borno State from May 29th to date, Auno town has been attacked about six
times now. And the reason is that the military has withdrawn from Auno town. We
have made repeated plea to the military to re-establish a base in Auno since it
is one of the flashpoints of the Boko Haram, but nothing has been done to that
effect.” The lesson here is that it was clear preventive measures that should
have been taken but that did not occur. The case pf Auno is symptomatic of the general
situation in Borno and Yobe States where the military have withdrawn from most
rural locations and concentrated their personnel and materials in super
garrison towns. The problem with this approach is that the hinterland is left
free for the insurgents to roam around without hinderance and strike
communities at will. As Nigerians have been clamouring for some time, there is
urgent need to rejig the entire security architecture in the country. Over the
past few weeks, the National Assembly, political and civil society have made
clear demands that the service chiefs whose terms have expired should make way
for a new set of leaders that might be able to bring renewed zeal and tactics
into security revisioning. The President has however rejected the demands further
deepening the divide between him and Nigerians. It is instructive that shortly
after the President left Maiduguri, the people noted that he did not visit Auno
to condole with the survivors and the insurgents attacked Maiduguri again. The major question on the minds of Nigerians is
whether our security agencies are playing their constitutional roles of
security provisioning for the people or joining the bandits and terrorists in
doing the opposite. There are numerous unconfirmed reports of close collaboration
between some rogue elements in security agencies and insurgents, bandits and
kidnappers. I know that many members of our security agencies are loyal and are
indeed risking their lives to improve our security. The danger is that the
people might conclude that all security agents have gone rogue and that would
simply worsen the situation. It is for this reason that security agencies must
clean their internal affairs as a confidence building measure with Nigerians.
Even more important is the urgent concern that the President himself is not
listening to Nigerians, accounting for the widening gulf between him and his
people. One of the key
challenges is that self-help in security provisioning is growing as people give
up on the State and its agencies. The communicative space is full of narratives
depicting the security as the real enemies of the people. I will end by
presenting the latest I have seen on WhatsApp in this regard. As is the case
with most such messages, we do not know whether they are true or false. The
important thing however is that many Nigerians believe such stories and the
gulf between the government and the people is certainly deepening. Shema is multi-millionaire
oil mogul. His mother was recently kidnapped. The kidnappers demanded for 100
million naira as ransom. After tough negotiations, 20 million naira was agreed
upon as ransom. The kidnappers also gave condition that the ransom should be in
mint; new notes. The millionaire approached CBN. He got new money to the tune
of 20 million. Serially arranged. He delivered the money to the kidnappers. But
before doing that he approached all neighbouring banks and requested them to
report anyone who came to deposit money, in large sums, bearing the numbers
associated with the money. Behold! The first person to be arrested was a police
inspector. Another lieutenant in the military was arrested. Upon investigation,
the arrested officers confessed that an assistant commissioner of police was
also involved. Pressed further, a top brass in the security was fingered. Shema
threatened to go to press. But he was prevailed upon not to. His money was
returned. Intact. A colleague of mine narrated this story to me this
morning.  As Pathetic as it sounds, the ones given weapons to protect us
are the ones oppressing us. Such stories are frightening and for people to stop believing them, they must see evidence that security is indeed improving. (Editor’s note: Shema has disowned the story circulated on Social Media)