Justice
Agatha Anulika Okeke of the Federal High Court, Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, on
Friday, February 14, 2020 convicted and sentenced one Nwalozie Onyebuchi
Julius, alias Dr. Godwin Emefiele, the governor of Central Bank of Nigeria to
three years imprisonment without an option of fine. According
to a statement  signed by Tony
Orilade,acting spokesman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission,
EFCC,  the convict was arraigned by the
Uyo Zonal Office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, on a
one-count charge, bordering on impersonation and obtaining by false pretence to
the tune of N4.5million. Nwalozie’s
journey to jail began on December 6, 2019 when he was arrested by the
operatives of Uyo Zonal Office of the Commission, based on reliable
intelligence on the activities of internet fraudsters, operating in Owerri, the
Imo State capital. Upon
arrest, the convict confessed to the crime and a forensic analysis of the HP
laptop recovered from him further implicated him as several incriminating
documents of false pretence and fraudulent extortions were printed from his
laptop which he also admitted, emanated from him. Investigation
also revealed that the convict’s specialty was Business Email Compromise-BEC
and his modus operandi involved searching for email addresses via Google search
and sending convincing emails to his victims. He also confessed to have used a
particular email address, (emefielegodwin586@yahoo.com) purportedly belonging to the
C.B.N governor, Dr. Godwin Emefiele in defrauding one Omar Deep, who thought he
was actually dealing with the real C.B.N Governor. The
one-count charge against the convict reads: “That you, Nwalozie Onyebuchi
Julius (alias Dr. Godwin Emefiele, the Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria) on
or about 26th day of August, 2019 in Nigeria within the jurisdiction of this
honourable court, fraudulently impersonated one Dr. Godwin Emefiele, the
governor of Central Bank of Nigeria by using email address: emefielegodwin586@yahoo.com, with
intent to obtain money, property or any advantage from one Omar Deep and other
unsuspecting persons, the pretence you knew to be false and thereby committed
an offence contrary to Section 22 (2) (b) (ii) of the Cybercrime (Provision,
Prevention Etc) Act, 2015 and punishable under Section 22 (2) (b) (iv) of the
same Act.” He
pleaded guilty to the charge, prompting Joshua Abolarin, the prosecuting
counsel to pray the court to review the facts of the case through a prosecution
witness, Haliru Abubakar Bagudo, an operative of the EFCC. While
reviewing the facts of the case, the prosecution tendered various exhibits
through Bagudo, which were admitted in evidence. Consequently, Abolarin prayed
the court to invoke Section 274 (2) of the Administration of Criminal Justice
Act, ACJA and convict the defendant in view of the evidence adduced and the
plea of the defendant. In
his judgment, Justice Okeke said she was satisfied with the evidence before the
court that the defendant was guilty as charged. “Prosecution
has proven beyond reasonable doubt that the defendant, Nwalozie Onyebuchi
Julius, committed the offence as charged. I therefore convict you accordingly.
The court equally takes cognisance of the spree with which fraudsters defraud
innocent citizens and therefore sentence you Nwalozie Onyebuchi Julius to three
years imprisonment with effect from date of your arrest.” Additionally
the convict forfeited his Hp laptop, which was his instrument of crime as well
as the N1million recovered from him to the Federal Government.