The Commissioner for Water Resources in Kwara State, Hajia
Arinola Lawal, has directed engineers handling various projects on burst pipes
and damaged leakages at the Ilorin General Hospital and other areas to complete
them on, or before Saturday. The Commissioner, gave the directive on Thursday, when she
paid an unscheduled visit to the General Hospital in order to assess the level
of repair works on damaged pipes, and see how adequate water supply could be
restored to the hospital. She said the Governor was interested in the welfare of
patients at the hospital, urging the engineers to quickly complete their
renovation works. “The era of bringing or carrying Jerry cans of water around
the premises of the hospital has gone. This is the era of change and nothing
but positive change in character and also attitude,” she emphasised. In his response, the Chief Medical Director (CMD) of the
hospital, Prof.  Abdulfatahi Olokoba, commended the state government and
Commissioner for their prompt response. He explained that the hospital had been getting water
regularly since the Gari-Alimi under-pass was completed, but due to recent
leakages in some pipes, the hospital has not been getting regular water supply
for some times. Prof. Olokoba, while pleading with the Kwara State Water
Corporation to find a lasting solution to the problem, pledged the support of
their hospital management to the Water Corporation. The Commissioner and her entourage also visited Sobi
Specialist Hospital, in the State’s capital where she inspected the burst pipes
close to Rotamedics Pharmacy in Ita Elepa area, Admiralty Villa at GRA, and a
location opposite Presidential Lodge. At the Sobi hospital, Hajia Arinola, was received by the
Chief Medical Director, Dr. Isiaka-Lawal Salmat, and other management staff of
the hospital. The CMD, lamented that water situation in their specialist
hospital is nothing to write home about, even as she implored the Commissioner
to use her good office to solve their problem of water scarcity. She disclosed that only the borehole donated by UNICEF to
the hospital is still functional. In a similar vein, Ms. Arinola Lawal, has attributed the
persistent vandalisation of government properties at Oloru waterworks to the
lackadaisical attitude of past local government administrations. The Commissioner, observed that the failure of successive LG
administrations in ensuring prompt payment of salary to security personnel at
the waterworks, resulted to the non-chalant attitudes exhibited by staff
guarding the public facility. She revealed this to journalists after inspecting the Oloru,
Bode Saadu and Malete waterworks, all in Moro Local Government Area of the
State. Ms. Lawal, tasked officials of the LGA to evolve effective
security measures to prevent further vandalisation of government’s equipment. She commended the Chief Security Officer at Oloru
waterworks, Mr. Sanni Ishola, and other security personnel in the dam for
providing adequate security at the dam. At Bode Saadu waterworks, Mrs. Lawal, appreciated the
Operation Officer, Mr. Iliasu Babatunde and other staff of the Water
Corporation, for ensuring constant water supply to people of the area. The Commissioner who admitted that there are challe nges in upgrading some of the vital equipment at the dam
such as Dossing Pump Machine, and Alum Clorine Machine, said the Pumping
Machine also needed to be serviced for it to adequately supply water to the
community. She however, reiterated the commitment of the State
Government to the provision of drinkable water to the people of Oloru, Bode
Saadu and Malete. Ms. Lawal, was accompanied by Hon. Salman Rotimi Iliasu, the
Commissioner for Works and Transport; Dr. Afolabi Adesola, Permanent Secretary
of the Works and Transport Ministry; and Engr. Shehu Umar, the General Manager
(GM) of Kwara State Water Corporation.