President
Muhammadu Buhari Thursday in Abuja pledged that the Federal Government will
sustain the deployment of Geographic Information Services (GIS) and other
similar technologies to help farmers achieve increased production. The
President made this known when he received a delegation of the Surveyors
Council of Nigeria (SURCON) led by the President of the International
Federation of Surveyors, Prof Rudolf Staiger. He
expressed delight that many States in Nigeria are adopting GIS for both urban
and rural development, noting that the Federal Government was also on track in
using similar technologies to support farmers to increase their yields. President
Buhari said his administration will continue to work with members of the survey
and geo-informatics profession to provide quality infrastructure that will
bring prosperity to Nigerians. ‘‘Our
Government, in the past 5 years, has embarked on critical infrastructure
development and rehabilitation projects across the country. We are designing
and building roads, bridges, rail tracks, airports and affordable housing all
over the country. ‘‘Our
goal is simple, we will develop quality infrastructure that will bring
prosperity to millions of Nigerians in both our urban and rural areas. ‘‘To
achieve this, we are working with surveyors, engineers and town planners. I am,
therefore, confident that the 344 new surveyors inducted into the register of
the Surveyors Council of Nigeria will be very busy in the coming years,’’ he
said. The
President also used the occasion to recognise the roles and numerous
contributions of members of the profession to national development, pointing to
the design and development of the Federal Capital Territory. ‘‘Indeed
this beautiful city of Abuja, which was conceived in 1976, is an excellent
example of the good work delivered by your profession. ‘‘As
you are aware, the city we are seeing today was designed and built through the
collaboration of many local and international surveyors, engineers and
geospatial experts,’’ he said. In
his remarks, Prof Staiger, told the President he was in the country to witness
the induction of 344 new surveyors into the register of SURCON, and the
investiture of the maiden edition of the Distinguished Senator Ahmed Ibrahim
Lawan Award for the Development of Survey and Geoinformatics in Nigeria. ‘‘For
me, it is a great opportunity to personally interact with President Buhari
whose international reputation of honesty, integrity and selfless services
stand him out as one of the greatest sons of Africa,’’ he said. The
President of the International Federation of Surveyors added that the
association was proud to be associated with the Nigerian leader and his
administration’s determination to revive Nigeria.