By Victor Emejuiwe The Code
of Conduct Bureau is saddle with the mandate to establish and
maintain a high standard of public morality in the conduct of government
business and to ensure that the actions and behavior of public officers conform
to the highest standards of public morality and accountability. It is one of
the Anti-Corruption Agencies that is ordinarily meant to cleanse public service
in Nigeria from the scourge of corruption. One of the core
functions of the CCB is to receive the declaration of assets of
public servants. They are also expected to examine the assets declared and
ensure that they comply with the requirement of the constitution. The
constitution mandates all public servants whether elected or appointed to
declare their assets with the CCB. The category of public servants
includes; The President, Vice President, members of the National Assembly,
Ministers, Governors and Deputy Governor, members of the State Houses of Assembly
and Commissioners, etc So
many countries including Ghana also have a body such as CCB who performs
similar function like that of Nigeria. In Ghana, the Auditor General conducts
the audit of assets declared by public servants. This is a core function that
helps to prevent diversion of public resources for personal and individual
benefits. Beyond the declaration of asset, the audit and verification of assets
declared is necessary to prevent and as well as fight corruption that
has characterized public service in Nigeria. It is a known fact that so many
appointees of government lives beyond their legal remuneration and
allowances. The
CCB has not been proactive to ensure that public servants declare their
asset and update it after four years as required by law. Most times
the assets declared are not the true reflection of the properties or
liabilities of the declarants, thereby requiring further
investigation by the CCB. The
lack of proper verification to ascertain the true value of assets and
liabilities of government appointees before assuming office and
after leaving office have created room for corrupt public servants
to escape the sanctions of the code of conduct
tribunal. Recall,
the Code of Conduct Tribunal S. 15 (2), (3) provides that any
statement in declaration that is found to be false by any authority and person
authorized in that behalf shall be deemed to have breach the CCT Act. It
subsequently provided that any property or assets acquired by a public
officer after any declaration required under the Constitution and
which is not fairly attributable to income, gift, or loan approved by the CCT
Act shall be deemed to have been acquired in breach of the
CCT unless the contrary is proved. The defaulters are by law required
to return those assets back to the federal government. If the CCB had been
conducting extensive verification of the assets declared, pre and
post in the appointments of public officers, the job of the asset
recovery and management unit supervised by the Attorney General of the Federation,
would have been made much easy. This would also aid public finance
management. It is
therefore recommended that CCB engages capable hands or equip its existing
staff with the requisite expertise to verify information provided by government
officials in their asset declaration forms. Discrepancies discovered in
the asset declared should be duly reported and recovered by the asset recovery
unit following due process. In
addition, for the sake of administrative efficiency, the CCB should
consider the option of online declaration of asset to provide ease of
compliance on asset declarations by the declarants. The CCB should
consider producing a detailed report of verified asset of political
office holders certified by the CCB. This should be made
available in the website of the CCB Victor Emejuiwe Program Officer (Good Governance) Writes from Centre for Social Justice Abuja 08068262366