President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan
on Wednesday inaugurated a 56-member Steering and Constitution Review Committee
of the Senate to re-examine the Nigerian Constitution in line with the
yearnings of the people. The Deputy Senate President, Ovie
Omo-Agege is the chair of the committee which is expected to work in
collaboration with a similar committee from the House of Representatives. Inaugurating the committee, the
Senate President said reviewing the constitution is an arduous task which
requires painstaking consultation, dialogue and debates. Lawan said it is expected that there
will be consultations with public organisations and the civil society including
the Independent National Electoral Commission(INEC), Civil Society Groups, the
academia, the Media and indeed the citizenry. “This assignment needs a great
deal of time, resources and expert ideas. This is so because constitutional
reviews are not every day exercise. “On the few occasions that it
becomes necessary, we have the responsibility to ensure that inputs and outputs
are not just exhaustive, but should also be wide ranging and effective. “When this process is foolproof, we can then rest assured that it will take a longer time before new realities possibly trigger demands for amendments. “The senate is mindful of the
central role of the constitution, as the Grundnorm of our democracy. The continued success of our
democracy is reasonably dependent on a well thought constitution. “Though no constitution can be
faultless, mostly because social dynamics are unpredictable, but a good review
can increase its functionality, and then decrease social agitations. “This will not only ensure
national harmony, but also guarantee the greater peace and progress of our
country. “As statesmen, we surely have
another noble task in our hands. And it is also a task that I believe my
distinguished colleagues, and indeed, the National Assembly will excel at
carrying out,” Lawan said. The Senate President said the
committee was carefully constituted to ensure a good representation of all
parts of the country to project all anxieties. He said with the Deputy Senate
President as Chairman and all principal officers, one representation from every
state of the federation, and another two sets of senators from the six
geopolitical regions as members, “the composition of the Committee is
surely rock solid.” “We do not just envisage a
country where citizens will feel fulfilled, but also one where happiness, peace
and prosperity will come with it. “We long for a country where
our economy will not only be prosperous, but also where the political process
will be seamless, and characterized with noble causes of service, patriotism
and nationalism. “An enhanced constitution is a
good starting point, and it is the reason why we call on all stakeholders to be
involved. Our contributions, submissions, and viewpoints are the materials the
Committee will feed on. “Let me take this opportunity
to appeal to all those who feel very strongly about any issue that requires
constitional review to make his case so that we are able to capture the issues
rather than talking elsewhere. “I therefore urge all citizens,
groups, and organisations to be involved so that together, we shall make our
country a pride of Africa, and a beacon for humanity,” Lawan said.