A 24-year old Nigerian, Bayode Oke, has been recognised with the highest award a young person can receive for social action and humanitarian efforts. He was honoured with The Diana Award for young heroes who go above and beyond in their daily life to create and sustain positive change to their environment and society at large. The Diana Award was established in memory of the late Princess Diana, Princess of Wales. The Award is given out by the charity of the same name and has the support of her both sons, The Duke of Cambridge and The Duke of Sussex. In this exclusive interview with Newsdiaryonline, he bares it all. Excerpts: By Abdallah el-Kurebe Who is Oke Bayode-Thomas (Radr.)? I am a Nigerian trained Computed Tomography Specialist Medical Radiographer. I am also a member of the European Society of Radiology and currently the Administrative Director and Co-founder of The Invasion Group, a nonprofit organization, which focuses on harnessing the strength of young minds for change and also the co-founder of Mentors in Nigeria Initiative, a community of mentors who support young people to make empowered decisions and believe in their potential, both based in Lagos. As a mentor? I grew up in an underserved community, experienced the profound impact of mentoring myself and want other young people to have this opportunity too. My organisations have over 100 committed volunteer mentors who provide support to young people. Many mentees are resistant at first but soon see the potential. Fifty of the young people who have been mentored through the programs has gone on to become mentors themselves. I am a strategic thinking professional with more than three years’ experience in the non-profit space. Highly skilled at relationship building with clients and across organizations and teams. I also work with community-based organizations and government health institutions to advance health education and promote awareness has made me to be nominated for several awards, publications in prestigious newspapers and subsequent A-grade national TV interviews. I consider myself a role model and strong influencer for hundreds of young people across Nigeria. Your awards? First of all, I earned my medical degree from the University of Lagos, Nigeria. I am a young African Leadership Initiative (YALI) fellow, also a finalist in the regional finals of the Hult Prize business competition Abuja, 2018. I am a certified design thinker having undergone trainings with the USAID and the Lufthansa group. My latest award is the 2020 The Diana Award for world outstanding young heroes, an award created and endorsed by the two sons of late princess Diana The Dukes of Cambridge and  Sussex. What are the objectives of your NGOs and how do you fund your programs To create an ecosystem of vibrant youths with a changed mindset, equipped to be ethical leaders and motivated to deliver and scale positive impact through SustainableDevelopment Goals (SDGs): Environmental and Social Economic.Harness the strength of youths to effect a change in their immediate environmentby inspiring, empowering and equipping a new breed of Nigerian leaders throughthe acquisition of skills for personal, organizational and community transformation. Grow to be an organization with global standards and best practices providing empowerment initiatives and global services, with core interest in education for a sustainable future. To achieve the sustainable development goals by the Model United Nations. We have a program that aims at matching youths with caring adult mentors who are trained to focus on positive reinforcement, trust-building, and the achievement of goals, by engaging youths in a manner to enhance self-development. As a young man, what drives you to do all these, talk and act more than your peers? I have always had this drive to be an outstanding individual in every sphere and area I find myself. Being a medical student, I was exposed to a lot of opportunities that I could leverage to make me pursue excellence at all cost, which was what made me start my first project with my friends who also shared similar values. The project was named THE INVASION GROUP. Later on, while achieving great milestones, we thought of it that young persons between the ages of 13-18 are at the most vulnerable stage of their life’s and are faced with challenge of making life-defining decisions. Due to lack of direction, many young persons have made bad decisions which have resulted in negative outcomes such as high school dropout, substance abuse, or participation in risky behaviours. Through repeated failures in the classroom and the development of destructive habits, at-risk young people (13-18) have lost faith in the possibilities that await them if they are successful in putting their lives together. I then co-founded Mentors in Nigeria Initiative with the sole aim of creating a community of mentors saddled with the responsibility of promoting a positive mindset in young people and helping them make better life-defining decisions. So I would say my drive and passion was to be an influence on people, which I have been doing with all diligence for the past fours years now. It was not easy combining it with my studies, as a medical student, but the Lord has always been my strength. How did you feel when you were informed about the Diana award? I was amazed because I never saw it coming. Although I was excited because it came in timely when I launched my Conversation series on the social media themed: Your one step to Transformation with Oke Bayode, which made me so excited. Apart from this award, which other awards do you have? I have bagged several awards, nominations, interviews and publications right from my primary school days up to till now. I had a series of awards for the projects I did while at the University of Lagos, but above all the awards, this is the best award I have received so far. Who is your role model and mentor? I have been privileged to have a lot of mentors who I look up to and who have shaped my life in diverse ways. I have a spiritual figure in the person of Rev. Alexander Faranpojo. Also, Babayomi  and Funmilayo Oke, my parents were my first mentors who made me believe that I can be anything I want to be if I put my mind to it. My Role model is Dupe Akinsiun, Head, Leadership & Culture Center of Expertise at Coca-Cola Hellenic Bottling Company, Nigeria. What’s the big picture of your NGO in 5 years? A conglomerate. I envision a safe space where we would have produced youths who will become great people of influence and who will also go on to create a prototype of themselves, filling the world with people who can reach their potentials. I want to see these NGOs as resource hub for others in that space. What will you say to your admirers and team? I have the best team in the whole world. All of these achievements would never have come without their efforts. I am speaking about my co-founders Olusegun Marvellous and Ogunbela Ridwan. These are great men of influence in their respective fields. They made our projects easy and we were able to put our strengths together to achieve these milestones. To my admirers keep out of crime and always jump out the train of ills, choose your friends and don’t be open to any body as a friend. A friend that can’t add value to your life is not worth being around you. Most importantly fear God and keep doing what you’re doing and do it best. Lastly, don’t settle for anything, always have a choice. What are your high and low moments? Receiving the Diana Awards is my highest moment. Another high point in my life was when we did the biggest campus-led campaign in Lagos, Nigeria tagged R.A.C.I.N.G – Race against cancer in Nigeria. We gained a lot of traction from various influencers, television stations transmitted it and it was published in many newspapers. We had over 1500 students present at the campaign, which took place at the Johnson Jakande Tinubu park. Another, are results seen through our mentorship program. Seeing youths discovering their potentials and undergoing training on how to monetize their dreams is fulfilling. My low moments were times when we were bound with the constraint of funding. At these times, we had to outsource funds from family members because we were so young and seemed inexperienced to organizations. Hence, we received little or no form of funding for our projects but amidst all that, our projects were always a success because we were more driven by passion than money. As a youth myself, thoughts on the time ahead frightens me, because my generation may eventually turn out worse than that of my father's and uncle's. Reason: The dearth or near extinction of morals, decency, pride and patriotism in my country is enough to make a cadaver spin in its… December 9, 2012 In "Columns" President Muhammadu Buhari  on Friday presented awards to 168 ex-corps members at the combined 2015/2016/2017 President’s NYSC Honours Award held at the State House Banquet Hall, Abuja. Buhari, who was represented by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, also announced automatic employment to the awardees in the Federal Civil Service and scholarships… April 27, 2019 In "Education" Nigeria’s ace singer Ayodeji Balogun a.k.a Wizkid has won the `Young Person of the Year’ at the 2017 edition of the prestigious Future Awards Africa. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Future Awards Africa is an award that acknowledges inspiring young people making a difference through social… December 10, 2017 In "Society News"