The Acting Secretary of Health and Human Services Secretariat of Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA), Dr Mohammed Kawu has tested positive for COVID-19. Kawu, made the disclosure while briefing newsmen at the Asokoro District Hospital, where he is currently receiving treatment, on Thursday in Abuja. According to him, his journey to the isolation center began 12 days ago when he started experienced feverish conditions. ” The feverish condition prompted me to go for COVID-19 test which turned out to be positive,” he said. Kawu said it was very important for Nigerians to appreciate that COVID-19 was real and could be fatal. “I want every Nigerians, like I have always advice them in the media, that COVID-19 is real and anybody can be infected, especially those of us that are on the frontline. ” The disease can be fatal and it is important that everyone follows all the extant guidelines of hand washing or sanitizing, maintain social distancing wearing of facial covering and staying at home,” Kawu said. He said that the major drawback for front line health workers was infecting members of their families at home. The FCTA health secretary said that his family members who are infected are also being managed within the FCT system. “I am happy and I thank my creator that mine was moderate infection. I got some symptoms that were not very severe. ” I had to be on intravenous (IV) drugs for about 10 days. I’m stronger now. Probably they will discharge me anytime soon. ” I noticed very important thing; there is so much commitment by the health workers, they are very committed, very patriotic. They are risking their lives to protect the society,” Kawu said. He appealed to all Nigerians to be involve in the fight against the COVID-19. He, hwever, urged everybody to take personal responsibility to ensure  protection of their family. Kawu called on COVID-19 patients receiving treatment at Isolation and Treatment Center to observe all extant guidelines to tame the spread of the disease. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that FCT has seven isolation and treatment centers across the territory, out of which six of them are public facilities while one is privately managed. (NAN)