Flood, arising from a down pour on Saturday has submerged more than 20 buildings in Gwagwalada Area Council of Abuja, the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports. The rain that started from Friday night to early hours of Saturday, also submerged Gwagwalada bridge and a hotel. A NAN correspondent, who visited the flooded areas, observed that the flood had taken over Gwagwalada bridge linking Abuja to Lokoja. Some motorists detoured while others parked for the water to subside. Some residents were forced to either remain indoors or sail to safety. Some of the residents, who spoke with NAN, said that flooding was a common occurence in the community because of its proximity to a riverine area. Mr Yunusa Dogo, with six children whose house collapsed, told NAN that he was asleep when water submerged his house. “The level of destruction is devastating; it is quite unfortunate that the flood has affected many people in this community. “I was asleep when water submerged my house. I had to quickly move my children to a neighbour’s house,” he said. One of the residents of the area, Mrs Sarah Luka said: “As you can see no way for the water to flow down to the stream in the whole community. “We have lost so many of our goods to the flood. I and my children couldn’t sleep all through the night because of the flood.” Mr Sunday Kaka, a motorist, who parked his car before the flooded bridge, waiting for the water to subside,  said he could not risk the danger of crossing the bridge. Abuja-Lokoja  road close to the flooded bridge Many of the residents and motorists blamed the government for failing to put in place measures to handle emergencies.(NAN) The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has begun the demolition of about 102 houses built along waterways, following the recent flood incident which had claimed some lives in the Gwagwalada Area Council. Garba Kwamkur, Deputy Director, Monitoring and Enforcement, Department of Department Control, who led the exercise on Tuesday in… August 4, 2020 In "Environment" Many residents of Benin have been rendered homeless following several  hours of heavy down pour on Saturday. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) correspondent who went round to monitor the situation in the Edo capital, reports that several houses were submerged by the flood and others destroyed. NAN reports also that… June 21, 2020 In "Environment" The FCT Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), has advised the residents of Kubwa, Gwagwa-Karimo, Kuje, Airport Road and Gwagwalada to be wary of possibleflooding. The Director-General of FEMA, Alhaji Abbas Idriss, in a statement made available on Saturday in Abuja, said that torrential rainfall had increased the water level at the… August 10, 2019 In "Environment"