 Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar and presidential candidate of PDP in the 2019 race  has slammed the ruling APC for trying to link him with alleged fraudster, Ramon Abbas, AKA Hushpuppi. Contrary to APC’s claims, Atiku has distanced himself from Hushpuppi through a series of tweets by his media adviser, Paul Ibe. The tweets said, “It is curious that the All Progressives Congress is mischievously trying to link Atiku Abubakar to the alleged fraudster, Ramon Abbas, AKA Hushpuppi, simply because he was photographed with Atiku at an event where many Nigerians had gathered. “For the avoidance of doubt, it was a mere photo-op and not at any meeting as being  ingloriously speculated. We would advise the APC and Mr. Nabena to be very mindful of such senseless statements in the future,especially as the case under reference is a subject of litigation in another country. “Had they been more sensitive, they would have come to terms with the reality that the case is a national embarrassment – not something to cheer about for any political blackmail. For the avoidance of doubt, it was a mere photo-op and not at any meeting as being ingloriously speculated. We would advise the APC and Mr. Nabena to be very mindful of such senseless statements in the future especially as the case under reference is a subject of litigation… …in another country. Had they been more sensitive, they would have come to terms with the reality that the case is a national embarrassment – not something to cheer about for any political blackmail. Former Senate President, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki has described as irresponsible and cheap politics the statement credited to the All Progressives Congress (APC) and signed on its behalf by one Yekini Nabena in which it tried to link him with a cyber-crime suspect, Ramon Abbas who was recently arrested in… July 4, 2020 In "Crime & Police" By Ahmed Abba-Aji It seems the resolution of the recent issues within the Peoples Democratic Party by the Supreme Court and their successful Congress last week, in the midst of the chaos in the ruling All Progressive Congress, has set off alarm bells within the government. At a time when… August 16, 2017 In "Politics" It is a good omen that the former ruling party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the party that is home to that great Nigerian, Atiku Abubakar and other notable Nigerians like late Dr. Alex Ekwueme, late Abubakar Rimi, General Ibrahim Babangida, Chief Bode George, former President Olusegun Obasanjo, among others… January 16, 2018 In "Columns"