 The Senate on Wednesday confirmed the nomination of 39 Non-career and one Career Ambassadors of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. The confirmation of the nominees was sequel to the consideration of the report of the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs during plenary. President Muhammadu Buhari on July 1, 2020, in a letter requested the upper chamber to confirm the appointment of 41 Non-Career Ambassador-designate. The Senate, however, confirmed 39 Non-career Ambassadors and stood down the confirmation of the nominees from Niger and Yobe states to resolve what the committee described as a “mixup.” The nominees confirmed are: Engr Umar Suleiman (Adamawa); Kelvin Peter (Adamawa); John Usanga (Akwa Ibom); Chief Elejah Onyeagba (Anambra); Abubakar D. Ibrahim Siyi (Bauchi); Philip K. Ikurusi (Bayelsa); Hon. Tarzcor Terhemen (Benue); Paul Oga Adikwu (Benue); Al-Bishir Ibrahim Al-Hussain (Borno); Prof. Monique Ekpong (Cross River); Oma Djebah (Delta); Ominyi N. Eze, Ebonyi (Ebonyi); Yamah Mohammed Musa (Edo); Maj. Gen. C. O. Ugwu (Enugu); and Dr. Hajara I. Salim (Gombe). Others are: Obiezu Ijeoma Chinyerem (Imo); Ali M. Magashi (Jigawa); Prof. M. A. Makarfi (Kaduna); Hamisu Umar Takalmawa (Kano); Imam Galandanci (Kano); Amina Ado Kurawa (Kano); Amb. Yahaya Lawal (Katsina); Dare Sunday Awoniyi (Kogi); Ibrahim Kayode Laaro (Kwara), Abioye Bello (Kwara); Zara Maazu Umar (Kwara); Ademola Seriki (Lagos);  Henry John Omaku (Nasarawa); Chief Sarafa Tunji Ishola (Ogun); Mrs. Nimi Akinkube (Ondo); Adejaba Bello (Osun); Adeshina Alege (Oyo); Debo Adesina (Oyo); Ms. Folakemi Akinyele (Oyo); Shehu Abdullahi Yibaikwai (Plateau); Hon. Maureen Tamuno (Rivers); Faruk Yabo (Sokoto);  Adamu M. Hassan (Taraba); Abubakar Moriki (Zamfara). Also confirmed was Suleiman Sani, a Career Ambassador from the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The Senate on Wednesday confirmed 39 non career ambassadors-designate and one career nominee for FCT sent by President Muhammadu Buhari for appointments as Ambassadors for the Nigerian foreign missions. Buhari had in a letter to Senate sought the confirmation of the nominees for appointment as non career, and career ambassadors… July 22, 2020 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday sought the confirmation of the Senate for appointment of 41 nominees as non career ambassadors to Nigerian foreign missions. Buhari’s request is contained in a letter addressed to President of Senate, Ahmad Lawan and read at plenary on Wednesday. Buhari also in a letter read… July 1, 2020 In "News" The Senate on Thursday confirmed the nominations of 42 Ambassador designates presented by President Muhammadu Buhari, for confirmation as Ambassadors to Nigerian foreign missions. The confirmation of the nominees at plenary, followed a presentation of the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs thtough its Chairman, Sen. Bulkachuwa Muhammad, and… June 11, 2020 In "News"