Novak Djokovic and his wife Jelena have tested negative for COVID-19, nine days after returning a positive test, the world number one tennis player’s media team said on Thursday. Djokovic, along with Grigor Dimitrov, Borna Coric and Viktor Troicki, tested positive after playing in the Adria Tour, an exhibition tournament organised by the 17-time Grand Slam champion. “Novak Djokovic and his wife Jelena tested negative for COVID-19, as the most recent test they took in Belgrade showed. “They felt no symptoms of the virus and took the test after consultations with the doctors. “They spent the past 10 days in self-isolation upon returning from Zadar in Croatia, having adhered to all COVID-19 protocols and safety measures,” the statement said The tournament witnessed packed stands during the opening leg staged at Djokovic’s tennis complex in Belgrade from June 13 to June 14, with players hugging at the net, playing basketball, posing for pictures and attending press conferences together. The second leg was held in Zadar from June 20 to June 21. The players did not break any Serbian or Croatian government protocols, as neither country required the athletes to maintain any social distancing However, Djokovic, who was heavily criticised for staging the event, issued an apology, saying he was extremely sorry for the harm that had been caused. Serbia has over 15,000 registered cases and 287 deaths due to the pandemic. (Reuters/NAN) Croatia’s Borna Coric has told fans he is feeling well and experiencing no symptoms after contracting the novel Coronavirus at Novak Djokovic’s controversial Adria Tour tournament. Djokovic, Coric, Grigor Dimitrov and Viktor Troicki all tested positive for COVID-19 after playing in the event in Serbia and Croatia, which drew big… June 26, 2020 In "Health" An emotional Novak Djokovic could not hold back the tears while hosting a charity event at his tennis complex by the Danube River on Sunday. Although he missed out on Sunday’s Adria Tour final, in which Dominic Thiem beat Serbian Filip Krajinovic 4-3 2-4 4-2, the event revived a lot… June 15, 2020 In "News" Former Governor of Lagos State,Bola Ahmed Tinubu has disclosed  that his late Chief Security Officer, Alhaji Lateef Raheem, and another unnamed staff have tested positive for coronavirus. This was disclosed in a statement by the Tinubu Media office Monday. The statement said “Following the death of our well-respected and beloved… April 27, 2020 In "Health"