By Danlami Nmodu Suspended acting National Chairman of EFCC, Ibrahim Magu has written to Justice Ayo Salami, Chairman of the Presidential panel probing the EFCC. Magu’s letter written by his counsel, Wahab Shittu( Esq) was submitted to the panel Wednesday morning according insiders familiar with the intrigues. Magu, according to the letter debunked media reports accusing him of sundry allegations. The suspended acting EFCC chairman denied paying money to Vice President Yemi Osinbajo(SAN) and Femi Falana(SAN) as alleged in recent media reports. Addressing the issue of Osinbajo in Magu’s letter, the lawyer said: “Our client strongly denies this falsehood against the respected Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Our client has never given the sum of N4billion or any sum at all to Prof. Yemi Osinbajo SAN, GCON, Vice President of Federal Republic of Nigeria as wrongly reported. This allegation is complete falsehood designed to tarnish the hard-earned reputation of the Vice President and our client. On Falana, Magu’s lawyer said in the letter to Salami: “Our client never gave N28 million or any amount to Mr Femi Falana SAN as maliciously reported. Our client also denies any link with a Kaduna-based Bureau De Change Operator as alleged.” Read the text of Magu’s letter obtained by Newsdiaryonline below: THE CHAIRMAN,The Presidential Investigation CommitteeOn The Alleged Mismanagement OfEconomic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC)Federal Government Recovered Assets and FinancesFrom May 2015 to May 2020. Attention: Hon Justice Isa Ayo Salami (Rtd)Gentlemen:PUBLICATIONS PREJUDICIAL TO THE PROCEEDINGS OF THIS HONOURABLE PANELWe act as Counsel of Choice to Mr Ibrahim Mustafa Magu, the suspended Acting Chairman of the EFCC hereinafter referred to as “Our Client” and on whose behalf and specific instructions we write as follows:This is a follow-up to our letter dated 10th July, 2020 on behalf of our client.Please be advised that the attention of our client has been drawn to serial falsehood publications in the media in respect of matters which never featured in the proceedings of this Honourable Panel.These falsehood publications being orchestrated in the media include the following: SEIZED PROPERTIES ALLEGEDLY CORNERED BY TOP EFCC OFFICIALS, MAGU’S FRIENDS – PANEL (THE PUNCH, JULY 13TH, 2020)The above publication is outright falsehood. Our client requests answers to the following: a) Who are the EFCC officials who cornered the properties?b) What specific properties were cornered? And by who?c) Who were these Magu’s friends who cornered these properties?Our client insists that these imputations attributed to the Panel are outright falsehood. Our client states that these allegations never featured in the proceedings of the panel. Based on the above circumstances, our client was not given adequate time and facilities for his defence and his demand for a copy of the allegations against him has not been honoured till date.We appeal to the Honourable Panel to consider the above and uphold the Fundamental Rights to fair hearing of our client.Kindly find attached, copies of these newspapers for ease of reference.Please accept our best Professional Regards. Wahab Shittu (Esq)WK SHITTU & CO