   The National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN) has raised the alarming, alleging that some powerful forces are desperately trying to detract President Muhammadu Buhari led administration from probing the corruption scandals in the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) as well as the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). This was contained in a letter made available to journalists in Abuja on Monday by the NYCN National President, Comrade Solomon Adodo, asking Buhari to stay focused in the fight against corruption, alleging deliberate effort to thwart the war. Adodo while addressing newsmen during the ‘Nigerian Youth Solidarity Anti-Corruption Walk’ at the National Unity Fountain Abuja, thanked the President  for being open about the alleged sabotage of the anti-corruption fight from within the EFCC. He stressed that for the first time the anti-corruption agency is being cleansed and assured the President of support, solidarity and prayers till the end. Part of the letter read: “The distractions of the naysayers are being tackled by the youths, whose future you work for. Just stay focused and busy with the more important things of building a country that will not collapse on us. They shall be defeated, Insha Allah! “Your Excellency, let us use this opportunity to thank you for your leadership recruitment ingenuity in appointing and supporting a capable Attorney General and Minister for Justice like Mr. Abubakar Malami, SAN who has against all odds kept faith with your Sanitization Agenda.” “The enemies of your Rescue Government are deploying all strategies. But our observation shows that he is equal to the task of defending and protecting your vision for a corrupt-free Nigeria. While expressing our unshaken solidarity with you, we commend him for the sincerity and courage in utilizing his office to help protect your Government and its mission and vision. “Finally, we use this medium to bring to your attention desperate attempts by traducers of your government to sponsor and string Media campaign including sponsored editorials against your good person and the ever diligent Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice. This is targeted at arm twisting the government of of its patriotic anti-corruption war. We urge you not to relent however as these negative elements are infinitesimal compared to the millions of Nigerians with you.” In the same vein, Adodo also used the opportunity to defend the Attorney General and Minister for Justice, Mr. Abubakar Malami, who he said embodies the ideal of the President’s fight against corruption. According to him,  Buhari administration had through the efforts of Malami helped Nigeria recover a lot of monies looted from the common treasury and properties acquired through corruption. He remarked again, that “hell has been let loose” since the President and AGF insisted on probing the EFCC, NDDC and those associated with various corruption allegations. The letter further read: “We have also been saved from the criminal nightmare of the P&ID by the focus of your Government, especially through the efforts of your Patriotic and loyal Attorney General and Minister for Justice, Mr. Abubakar Malami, SAN. “We know that hell has been let lose because of your insistence that the quantum corruption in the Niger-Delta Development Commission (NDDC) must be thoroughly investigated. This is the first time a Nigerian President is committed to saving the Niger-Delta people through Probity. All the culprits and opposition have aligned to deceive the country, malign your person and criticize the Government. But the Nigerian Youths are with you. We shall win those detractors and punish them under our law for their crimes.”               