 The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has mocked the All Progressives Congress (APC) for plotting to use fabrications in a section of the media to arm-twist the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to manipulate the Edo state governorship election for their rejected candidate, Osagie Ize-Iyamu. The party said in a statement by its Spokesan, Kola Ologbondiyan that in sponsoring fake reports that PDP leaders were putting pressure on INEC Chairman, Prof. Yakubu Mahmood, on the Edo election, the APC has further exposed its hopelessness over their rejection by the Edo people and now seeks to blackmail the Commission. PDP said, “Whereas we understand APC’s despondency over the soaring popularity of our party and candidate, Governor Godwin Obaseki, the APC is worsening its woes by sponsoring fabrications against the expressed will of the people of Edo state to re-elect Governor Obaseki in the September election. “The APC, by now, should know that attempting to rig, by any way whatsoever, will surely be met with stiff resistance and dire consequences from the people. “Our party counsels the APC to blame nobody but themselves for having a discredited nomination process and being stuck with a blighted candidate, who has now become a symbol of a direct affront by corrupt political godfathers and cabal to the will, ability and liberty of the people of Edo state to chose their own leader. “The APC should also hold Oshiomhole responsible for indicting its candidate as a “fake pastor” that started carrying the Holy Biblebecause he could not practice as a barrister. “The APC should blame themselves for presenting a candidate who was exposed by their party’s former National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, as a person of questionable character, a treasury looter, acid bather,rusticated student; a politician, who is only good for “night meetings” and unfit to hold office as governor of Edo state. “It is indeed disgraceful that 73 days to the election, all the APC has to offer is blackmail against our leaders, after its plans to derail theelection has been exposed. It is common knowledge among Nigerians that characters, such as‘gandollar’, the killers in the Kogi election as well as manipulators inthe Imo election, being paraded by the APC as the face of their campaignin Edo state, were foisted into office through rigging, bloodletting andmanipulation of election results. Nigerians already know how the “Gandollar” election was driven bymercenaries from neighboring countries who disrupted electoral processesand inflicted injuries and pain on our compatriots. Nigerians can also recall how, in the Kogi election last year, gunmenand police helicopter were used to chase away voters, while an innocentwoman, Salome Abuh, was killed by APC thugs in celebration of theirbloodstained electoral conquest in the worst election in our politicalhistory as a nation. The public has not also forgotten how an individual, who came a distantfourth in the Imo state governorship election, suddenly became thewinner. The PDP notes that it is only a discredited and rejected party like theAPC that will enlist the services of known election manipulators, whohave now started their assignment by sponsoring fake reports, to run itscampaign. Our party cautions the APC to desist from their plots to rig the Edoelection as the people of Edo will firmly resist them. The APC shouldrather blame themselves for their woes and get ready to accept theirinevitable crushing defeat at the poll. Furthermore, the PDP counsels INEC to note the dangerous plots of theAPC and insulate itself from their shenanigans as the tide in thiselection is already clear for all to see. Signed: Kola OlogbondiyanNational Publicity Secretary