 The  Nigeria  Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), on  Tuesday  said it had arrested six persons for alleged involvement in illegal crude oil refining. The commandant of NSCDC Lagos, Mr Ayinla Adeyinka, confirmed the arrest to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), in Lagos on Tuesday. Adeyinka was reacting to a fire outbreak at an illegal crude oil refining depot at Oregun, Ikeja Local  Development Council, on Tuesday. According to the commandant, the officials sighted  a fiery furnace  at Oregun at 2 pm on July 14, and the command activated its disaster team with no fewer than 10 officials from it Emergency Response Unit deployed to the scene. He stated that the suspects were arrested at the scene while some of the containers being used in the illegal act and sale of their product were confiscated. “The command  has conducted its preliminary investigations. “NSCDC Lagos will still conduct indepth investigations on the  state of the crude oil to get the members of the criminal gang,” the commandant said. The Commandant of  NSCDC urged Lagos residents with knowledge of such criminal activities to report to the corps and warned residents  on dangers of not reporting the activists of such hoodlum on time. Adeyinka said NSCDC Lagos command would not relent in bringing illegal oil dealers to book. The leader of Lagos NSCDC response crew to the scene, Mr Olajide Elijah, also confirmed to NAN that  the team intercepted over 18,000  liters of  oil products in numerous containers awaiting to be sold. One of the six suspects arrested, Alaba Solanke, 25, from Ogun State confessed that he  was a diesel distributor for one Ngozi Chioma, a woman, who is  now at large. Solanke, however, claimed that Chioma normally got her diesel from the depot of an independent petroleum marketer in the area. “I was in the Mosque and I  was told that our shop caught fire, I was there to help when officials of NSCDC rounded us up. Another suspect, Jacob Wusu, 50, who claimed to be the former Chief of Staff to a titled man denied membership of the cartel. Another suspect, Alex Chukwudi, 42, a Delta State indigene, also claimed that he only carried out Japanese car maintenance at the location of the incident. (NAN)