 The Managing Director of Nigeria Export Processing Zones Authority (NEPZA),Prof Adesoji Adesugba has warned officials of the agency against violations of financial regulations and inappropriate financial dealings. Speaking while briefing the audit personnel of the agency, the Managing Directordeclared that he would not tolerate tampering with financial regulations and corruptiveactivities, both in the procurement process and in the financial management of theagency. “Let me make this very clear- I will strictly enforce extant rules and financialregulations. I will not tolerate breaching of due process in procurement and otherfinancial transactions. “I charge you to ensure proper records keeping and observance of the internalprocesses. Every transaction must be within the bound of the law. If there is anyInfraction, I will act swiftly against culprits. There must be no excuse. “I am a stickler for transparency and accountability. Any official who breached thefinancial protocols will be sanctioned. We will conduct governance audit to ensurethe right things are done. We must adopt and follow our processes within the groundof extant regulations”, the Managing Director declared. He urged the staff of the agency to imbibe the culture of transparency and accountability,warning that he will not shield nor defend any official engaging in corrupt practices. Adesugba assumed duty as NEPZA boss on 1st July after President Muhammadu Buhariapproved his appointment on June 26.  Staff of the Nigeria Export Processing Zones Authority (NEPZA), Monday locked the gates of the headquarters in Abuja in a peaceful protest over alleged management’s indifference to staff welfare. They complained that their payment of claims, allowances and promotions were unduly delayed without explanations while the Managing director, Gbenga Kuye,… November 12, 2013 In "Business" The Ministry of Trade and Investment on Tuesday offered an explanation on the alleged illegal transfer of about N14billion from the 2017 appropriation budget of  the Nigeria Export Processing Zones Authority (NEPZA). The ministry in its explanation noted that the amount was domiciled in an account with the Central Bank… October 22, 2019 In "News" Former Special Adviser to the President on Niger Delta during the Goodluck Jonathan administration, Hon. Kingsley Kuku, has said contrary to the claim by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), the Presidential Amnesty Programme (PAP) under his watch did not violate the Procurement Act. The ex-presidential aide also said… May 8, 2017 In "Anti-Graft"