The Commissioner of Police in Ondo State, Mr Undie Adie, on Thursday, confirmed the rescue of Capt. D. L. Gana, attached to SVP 33 Brigade, Bauchi, from his abductors. Gana was kidnapped on May 11, alongside three others, around Auga Akoko/Ibilo road in Akoko North West Local Government area of Ondo state. NAN also reports that the military officer was said to be travelling from Abuja to Ibadan on official assignment. A statement issued by the command’s Public Relations Officer, ASP Tee-Lee Ikoro, in Akure, said that it took the combined efforts of police operatives and their military counterparts to rescue Gana unhurt in a forest between Imoga/Ibilo in Edo. The police commissioner commended the efforts of his men and their military counterparts, whom he described as “strategic partners”, for the rescue operation. According to him, nothing is more important to him than the peace, safety and security of the people of Ondo state. Adie enjoined residents of the state to always give useful information to the command for prompt and effective services. (NAN) By Abdallah el-Kurebe, Editor #TrackNigeria: The Ondo state police command on Wednesday paraded five kidnappers alleged to have been terrorising the people of the state, especially those in Akoko axis of the state. Parading the suspects, the Commissioner of Police, Undie Adie commended the media for their support of the… April 12, 2019 In "Crime & Police" The Osun Police Command on Tuesday said it had continued to intensify efforts aimed at rescuing the two officers of the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) kidnapped by gunmen on Sunday. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the officers, simply identified as Abioye and Bayegunni, were kidnapped while… May 21, 2019 In "Crime & Police" The Commissioner of Police in Ondo state, CP Undie Adie, on Friday decorated 19 newly promoted officers in the state. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that two Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP) were promoted to Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) while 17 Superintendent of Police (SP) were promoted to… January 4, 2020 In "Crime & Police"