 By Chimezie Godfrey The Nigerian Police Force (NPF) has said that it is not insensitive to the indispensable and patriotic role of the nation’s frontline workers in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. The Force also reiterated that all essential workers remain exempted from the movement restriction order. In a statement on Wednesday, signed by the Force Public Relations Officer, DCP, Frank Mba, the Force said it is now necessary to clear all the ambiguity on its  position as pertains the movement restriction order. “Following unending inquiries on the status of essential workers in respect of the due enforcement of the national curfew and inter-state movement restriction orders emplaced by the Federal Government, it has becomenecessary to clear all ambiguity on the position of the Nigeria Police Force especially as it relates to persons on essential duties. “The Force wishes to state that it is not oblivious of the sensitive, indispensable, patriotic and frontline role of the nation’s workforce that falls within the category of Essential Service Providers particularly as it relates to efforts to curtail and contain the COVID-19 pandemic. “To this effect, all essential workers including medical personnel, ambulance service providers, journalists, fire-fighters, etc remain exempted from the movement restriction orders as well as the national curfew,” the statement read. According to the statement, the Inspector General of Police, IGP, Mohammed Adamu has ordered Zonal Assistant Inspectors-General of Police to strictly implement these orders and ensure that essential workers are accorded due respect. “Consequently, the Inspector General of Police, IGP M.A Adamu, NPM, mni has directed Zonal Assistant Inspectors-General of Police and State Command Commissioners of Police to give maximum effect to these orders and extend due courtesies to essential service providers so affected. “And also ensure that personnel deployed for the enforcement duties respect the fundamental rights of the citizens,” the IGP said. The  IGP  urged all workers who fall within these categories not to take undue advantage of their positions and privileges to advance other purposes not connected with the performance of their duties within the stated period.