The Independent National Electoral Commission Thursday disclosed that it will work out modalities for ramping up activities on the forthcoming gubernatorial elections in Edo and Ondo states. Festus Okoye, National Commissioner & Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee made this known in a statement which also laid out rules for resumption of workers in the face of COVID-19 pandemic Okoye said, “The Commission will work out modalities for the ramping up of activities in two of the States where it has Governorship elections (Edo and Ondo) and will liaise with the security agencies and health authorities on resumption of work in the 2 States as soon as possible. He added, “The Commission will resume engagement with Political Parties, Civil Society Groups and Organizations, the media and other stakeholders in relation to the Edo and Ondo Governorship elections. The modalities for these engagements will be worked out and considered at its next meeting on May 14, 2020. According to Okoye, “The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) met on Thursday 7th May 2020 and deliberated on the step by step protocol for the resumption of activities and operations as well as preparations for the conduct of the Edo and Ondo Governorship elections and other pending Senatorial and State Assembly bye elections. “At the end of the meeting, the Commission resolved as follows:To carry out comprehensive decontamination of its National Headquarters, annex at Blantyre Street, the Electoral Institute and its Area 10 office housing its staff clinic. “To follow the Federal Government Guidelines on resumption protocols and procedure by providing infrared thermometers, soap and water at entrances and installing hand sanitizer dispensers at strategic points in the Commission. “To train its staff, particularly the cleaners and office assistants on cleaning protocols and strict compliance with Federal Government Guidelines as well as its own specific protocols for resumption. “To issue comprehensive Guidelines for the first phase of its resumption in compliance with the directives of the Federal Government and health authorities. These guidelines will be posted on its notice boards and uploaded on the website of the Commission on Monday May 11, 2020. The also disclosed that “That Directors and other designated Staff of the various Departments will resume at the National Headquarters on Wednesday May 13, 2020 after the decontamination of the premises and provision of necessary amenities as outlined earlier in this statement. “Only staff below 58 years of age with no serious underlying health issues will resume, while pregnant women, nursing mothers and all other staff with underlying health conditions should remain at home for the time being.” .