 Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, SAN has said that Presidential Executive Orders are aimed atcomplementing existing legislations and ensure inter-agency coordination in the process of implementation. Speaking on Thursday at the Radio Nigeria programme “Politics Nationwide”, Malami pointed out that Executive Orders are for ensuring constitutional compliance, complementing existing legislations, ensuring and enhancing operation, enforcement and application of legalprovisions as well as providing necessary supervision required forenforcement. This is contained in a statement issued by Dr. Umar Jibrilu Gwandu,Special Assistant on Media and Public Relations Office of the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice madeavailable to newsmen in Abuja on Thursday 28th May, 2020. Malami pointed out that Executive Orders are naturally intended toforce constitutional compliance which in the case of Section 121(3) of the1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria establishes theautonomy of the states legislatures and judiciary. “The Executive Order is therefore a necessary tool for the purpose of bringing toeffect such autonomy by way of assigning certain responsibilities, both institutional and otherwise necessary for the purpose of enforcing the autonomy. “By way of example, therefore, if the Federal Government wants to withhold the resources of a State Government that refuses to comply with the constitutional provisionrelating to the autonomy of State Legislatures and Judiciary then the Federal Government may require the services ofthe Office of the Accountant General of the Federation”. “Similarly, if the government wants the state legislature to be part of the process relating to appropriation, for example, agreement must be reached on the need for the state legislature to be alive to their responsibility. He noted that for a coordinated institutional support, necessaryand desirable for bringing to effect the operation, enforcement andapplication of a constitutional provision Executive Order becomesnecessary”. Malami said Executive Order No. 10 is meant to bring about the constitutionalityassociated with the autonomy of the state legislature and judiciary. The Attorney-General of the Federation said the Executive Order No- 10was also intended to achieve supervisory role by assigning responsibilitiesand ensuring proper supervision desired for the purpose of enforcementand application of autonomy constitutionally granted States legislature and judiciary as contained in Section 121(3) of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic ofNigeria. 