By Abdallah el-Kurebe Senator Aliyu Wamakko, has paid fines and secured release of 33 inmates at the Sokoto Medium Security Custodial Centre. This is contained in a statement by the Spokesperson of the Senator, Bashir Mani and made available to Newsdiaryonline on Friday. “The release of the inmates was secured through the Aliyu Magatakarda Wamako Free Legal Services Foundation. “The 33 benefiting inmates had their fines paid by the foundation as most of them were facing trial base on debt related issues,” the statement read. Wamakko, who was represented by the coordinator of the foundation, Mr Abdulhamid Zubair, appealed to the freed inmates to steer clear of crimes. He said that each of freed inmates was also given N5,000 for transportation back home. “This is part of the perennial gesture of Wamakko during the holy month of Ramadan, to ensure the release inmates to enable them celebrate the Eid-el-fitr with their various families,” he said. By Abdallah el-Kurebe Senator Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko on Wednesday secured the freedom of sixty four inmates after releasing N6 million for the payment of various fines, compensation and debts levied against them by the Courts. A statement by his Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Bashir Rabe Mani said the… June 13, 2018 In "News" By Abdallah el-Kurebe, Editor Senator Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko on Monday freed 45 prison inmates by paying debts they owe, fines and compensations. This is contained in a statement signed by his Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Bashir Rabe Mani and issued to newsmen in Sokoto. Freed under the Aliyu… June 4, 2019 In "News" By Abdallah el-Kurebe In the spirit of compassion in the month of Ramadan and to commemorate Eid-el-Fitr festivities, Governor Aliyu Wamakko on Saturday, granted unconditional pardon to nine inmates from Sokoto Central Prison. The release conducted by the Commissioner for Justice, Barrister Nuhu Adamu, the pardon was granted in accordance… July 26, 2014 In "Society News"