 The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Sokoto Zonal  office on Friday,  May 15, 2020  arraigned the duo of Meng Wei Kun and Xui Kuoi,  both Chinese,  before Justice Mohammed Sa’idu Sifawa  of the State High Court Sokoto  on  two- count charges of conspiracy and offering bribe to a public servant to the tune of N100,  000, 000.00 (One Hundred Million Naira). The defendants were docked for allegedly offering to bribe the EFCC Sokoto Zonal Head,  Mr. Abdullahi Lawal with the sum of one hundred  million naira (N100,  000.000.00) on behalf of a construction company:  China Zhonghao Nig. Ltd,  which is being investigated over contracts  awarded it  by the Zamfara State Government in the sum of over Fifty Billion Naira (N50, 000,000,000.00) between 2012 to 2019. The EFCC is investigating the construction company in connection with the execution of contracts for the construction of township roads in Gummi, Bukkuyun, Anka and Nassarawa towns of Zamfara State; and also the construction of 168 (One Hundred And Sixty-eight)  solar-powered boreholes in the 14 local government areas of the state. Count one read: ’That you Mr. Meng Wei Kun and Mr. Xu Kuoi sometimes in May 2020 at Kasarawa area, Airport Road Sokoto, within the jurisdiction of  the High Court of Justice Sokoto State agreed to do an illegal act to wit; bribery and you thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 59 of the Sokoto State Penal Code Law, 2019 and Punishable under Section 60 (2) of the same Law’’. The second count read: ‘’That you Mr. Meng Wei Kun and Mr. Xu Kuoi on the 11th of May 2020 at about 2200 hours at Kasarawa area, Airport Road Sokoto, within the jurisdiction of the High Court of Justice Sokoto State,  being staff of China Zhonghao Nigeria Limited, offered a bribe of  fifty million naira as inducement to one Abdullahi Lawal a Public Servant (Zonal Head of Operations of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission Sokoto Zonal Office) in order to compromise an ongoing investigation involving your company with regard to various contracts award/execution in parts of Zamfara State and thereby committed an offence of offering bribe to a Public servant contrary to Section 83 of the Sokoto State Penal Code Law, 2019 and Punishable under Section 83 (2) of the same Law’’. The defendants pleaded not guilty to the charges when  read to them. In view of their pleas,  prosecution counsel, Musa Mela Gwani who appeared with Habila Jonathan, asked for a date to commence trial and prayed the court for an accelerated hearing. However, counsel to the defendants, A. A. Usman, told the court that he had filed an application of bail for his clients and urged the court to grant his prayers. Justice Sifawa adjourned the matter to  May 18, 2020 for bail hearing and  June 15,  2020 for commencement of trial. Trouble started for the two Chinese when they offered the sum of N100,000, 000( One Hundred Million Naira only) as bribe to Abdulahhi Lawal, EFCC Sokoto Zonal Head,  in a desperate  bid to compromise ongoing investigations of a construction company,  China Zhonghao Nig. Ltd,  handling contracts awarded by the Zamfara State Government to the tune of N50billion  (Fifty  Billion Naira)  between 2012 to 2019. They were arrested and now facing prosecution for such an act of corruption. (EFCC Press Release) A gubernatorial aspirant in Bauchi State, Abdulahi Usman Adamu, alias Dan China, has been declared wanted by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC. The politician cum miner is wanted by the anti-graft agency for allegedly obtaining the sum of $500,000 USD (Five Hundred Thousand United States… September 7, 2014 In "News" The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, has arraigned the Chief Medical Director of Federal Medical Centre, Owo, Ondo State,  Dr Olufemi Omotosho and his counsel, Ayodele Owoka, before Justice Lateef Lawal Akapo  of the Lagos High Court, sitting in Ikeja on  a 5-count charge bordering on conspiracy to offer… March 3, 2015 In "Anti-Graft" N47.2 Billion and $487.5 Million in cash and properties have so far been traced to the former Minister of Petroleum Resources in the Ex-President Goodluck Jonathan’s administration, Mrs. Diezani Alison-Madueke. This followed painstaking investigations by operatives of Nigeria's Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC. From time immemorial, precious metals - gold,… August 9, 2017 In "Business"