By Tina George, Minna In its bid to launch its identity towards becoming a corporation, the Niger State Water Board has unveiled winners of the statewide logo competition. According to the Public Relations Manager, Aliyu Jibo Garba, the competition drew a large number of people from among which a committee selected the best three. He said the winner, Vincent Osheku who lives in 123 Quarters in Minna, went home with N150,000 while the second and third positions, Aremu Olakunle David and Abdulkadir Abdulkadir Pai went home with N100,000 and N50,000, respectively. Garba disclosed that the winner will work with the Brand Consultant commissioned by the USAID E-WASH program to finetune the logo that will fit the new brand and reflect the essence of the organization and the people of the State. The Public Relations Manager further said that the Niger state Water Board is working towards becoming an independent, autonomous and commercially viable entity to ensure efficient delivery of safe, clean drinking water to the people of Niger State. He stated that other activities by the Board in its walk towards becoming a corporation include capacity building of management and staff, adoption of new operational processes and procedures, techniques aimed at improving services, and partnering with various stakeholders for inclusiveness in the discharge of the mandate of the organization. The Association of Table Water Producers (ATWAP) in Niger said on Friday that it had increased the price of sachet water from N80 to N100 per bag. Malam Abdulwaheed Abdulkadir, Chairman of the association, disclosed this in an interview in Minna. Abdulkadir said that the increase was done to match… March 23, 2018 In "Business" By Abdallah el-Kurebe Towards efficient water supply, Sokoto state government has inaugurated "Block Mapping and Customer Enumeration". Inaugurating the exercise, organised by E-WASH, in conjunction with the Sokoto State Water Board, at Runjin Sambo Water Scheme, Commissioner of Water Resources, Alhaji Umar Bature charged civil society organizations, CSOs, and journalists… November 2, 2019 In "News" By Abdallah el-Kurebe, Editor Civil Society Organizations, CSOs, and community groups in Sokoto, have decried government's non implementation of Effective Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (E-WASH) and Open Government Partnership (OGP) policies in the state. A statement made available to Newsdiaryonline on Thursday, by the State Team Leader of OGP, Dr… March 12, 2020 In "News"