Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said on Friday that his country and the U.S. were better off cooperating with each other, to end the pandemic for the sake of reviving economy and rebooting industrial production. Zhao said this at a media briefing while commenting on U.S. President Donald Trump’s warning that bilateral ties might be halted over Beijing’s alleged responsibility for unleashing the coronavirus. On Thursday, Trump said in an interview with Fox News that the U.S. might cut all ties with China in light of Beijing’s coronavirus-related policies. “The stable development of U.S.-Chinese relations is in fundamental interest of people from both countries and is also favourable for global peace and stability. “China and the United States should now strengthen cooperation in combating the COVID-19 epidemic in order to defeat the coronavirus as soon as possible, cure patients, resume production, and develop the economy,” the spokesman said. Trump has repeatedly claimed, although with no evidence provided, that the virus that caused deaths, lockdowns, and economic standstill all around the world had in fact been developed in a lab in Wuhan, a Chinese city in the Hubei province from where the first reports of an abnormal respiratory disease came last December The U.S. president has threatened China with consequences if its responsibility for unleashing the virus gets proven. Asked by the host on Thursday to comment on a statement by one of the U.S. senators that the U.S. could stop issuing visas to Chinese students in retaliation, Trump said that his country could possibly go as far as cutting all bilateral ties altogether. China has so far consistently denied the accusations, stressing that its policies were transparent throughout the outbreak. (Sputnik/NAN) The United Nations (UN) has defended the World Health Organisation (WHO) against criticisms that it gave bad advice during the coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak in China. The criticisms were coming from U.S. politicians, including President Donald Trump, who alleged on Tuesday evening that WHO was “China-centric”. Speaking at the daily coronavirus… April 8, 2020 In "Health" The Chinese Embassy in Nigeria said that Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in China dropped by 8.6 per cent between January and February following the outbreak of the coronavirus code-named COVID-19. This is according to the embassy’s ‘Newsletter on Fighting COVID-19′ released in Abuja. FDI is an investment in the form… March 14, 2020 In "News" Mr Zhao Linxiang, the Economic and Commercial Counsellor at the  Chinese Embassy in Nigeria, on Friday in Abuja said the U.S. position on Chinese loans to Africa “is ridiculous”. The U.S. Secretary of State, Rex Tillerson, had said on Thursday that African countries should be careful not to forfeit their… March 9, 2018 In "Business"