A Peoples Democratic Party chieftain and candidate for the Kaduna Central senatorial district, Lawal Adamu Usman (Mr LA) has expressed dismay and perplexity over the resurgence of hostilities between the Adarra and Fulani communities of Kajuru local government area in the southern part of Kaduna State. Mr LA who said he was deeply touched by the latest spate of violence in those areas, described as unfortunate, the temptation to needlessly cause unrest and insecurity at a time when citizens are coping with the harsh realities of a lockdown amidst widespread uncertainties. “The typology of unrest and insecurity in parts of the state such as Birnin Gwari, Igabi and Giwa, and the dimension that they have taken in Kajuru of recent, are a serious cause for concern to all well-meaning stakeholders and citizens of Kaduna state,” the PDP chieftain said. Saying he is extremely worried and profoundly agitated by the recent resurgence of conflict of the nature of inter-ethnic and inter-communal clashes, Mr LA recalled that for centuries, Kajuru has been occupied and its treasures shared by both Adarra and the Fulani who call every space their home. “Like many communities across the world, the history of Kajuru is as well replete with disputes and isolated incidents over land; but the fact that the communities have for this long lived together and prospered, is a testimony to how far they have come in accommodating their differences and agitations. “There is today a growing population that comes with a growing demand from grazing and farming in most parts of the state which calls for sincere government action in order to ensure convenience of herders, while allowing sufficient allocation for farmers,” he said. He therefore advised authorities to seek the cooperation of community and cultural leaders and to engage the affected communities directly and honestly in order to arrive at a lasting solution to these lingering crises. “Leaders must work to reclaim their lost statesmanship by providing the minimal proof of their willingness and ability to discharge their responsibility in the vital role of providing security of citizens’ lives and properties,” he said. The death of the paramount ruler of Adara, the Agom Adara, Dr Maiwada Galadima, JP has been described as a great loss to the people of Kaduna state and the entire peace-loving people of Nigeria. Lawal Adamu Usman (Mr LA), the Peoples Democratic Party candidate for the Kaduna Central senatorial… October 27, 2018 In "News" Frontrunner in the race for the Kaduna Central Senatorial seat, Lawal Adamu Usman (Mr LA) has expressed worries over reports of a brewing tension at Kasuwan Magani of Kajuru Local Government Area which falls within his constituency. A statement issued by the candidate's special consultant on media, Abdul-Azeez Suleiman, said… October 19, 2018 In "News" The campaign train of Kaduna Central Senatorial aspirant, Lawal Adamu Usman (Mr LA), on Wednesday took Chikun local government area by storm and headed for Kajuru. The intimidating entourage was headed by Honourable Ibrahim Ali, a former education commissioner and erstwhile member of the Kaduna State House of Assembly. Eminent… September 19, 2018 In "Politics"