By Lesley Muosowo Otu Nigerians living abroad under the umbrella of Nigerians in Diaspora Organisation (NIDO), has alleged that the Chairman of the Nigerian Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM), Ms Abike Dabiri-Erewa, is promoting division among Nigerians in Diaspora. Reacting to a statement by NIDCOM, the Assistant General Secretary, NIDO, Europe, Mr. Fidel O. Wilson, alleged that Dabiri-Erewa was planning to form NIDOCOM board from one organization. Wilson quoted NIDCOM’s Head, Media and Public Relations Unit, Abdur-Rahman as saying in a statement that: “On the issue of NIDCOM board, she was optimistic that President Muhammadu Buhari will constitute appropriately, but denounced the fallacy in some circles that the two representatives of the Diaspora in six continents will come from “only one” Diaspora organisation.” He said that Dabiri-Erewa was trying to misinterpret the NIDCOM Act in order to misinform the public, while exploiting such misinformation to confer undue advantage on her cronies and friends, which he added, negates the original dream behind the establishment of NIDCOM. Wilson contended that NIDCOM Act was primarily aimed at accommodating all Nigerians in the Diasporas and therefore, its Board should not be closed to other various Nigerian Diaspora organisations across the globe. “The inclusion of two representatives of NIDO from the relevant continents as enshrined in the ACT, does not in any way exclude the inclusion of other Diaspora organizations and well-meaning Nigerians in Diaspora. After all the Commission was made for Nigerians in Diaspora and not for Nigerians in Nigeria and selected friends of Abike Dabiri-Erewa. “The instrument is quite explicit on the workings of NIDO and other Nigerian organisations in the Diaspora, hence, Abike Dabiri-Erewa should desist from causing divisions within Diaspora organisation in other to favour her indiscretion. “Abike Dabiri-Erewa’s act is invariably dangerous as she propagates misleading information whilst using the position of her office to stroke the amber of discord among Diaspora Organizations for her selfish interest at a time when Nigerians in Diaspora are increasingly uniting to fight a common enemy (Covid-19) that is devastating our people and our Nation”, Wilson stated. He called on President Muhammadu Buhari to take urgent steps in ensuring that the anticipated constitution of the NIDCOM Board was done in line with the provisions of the act. However, when contacted by Newsdiaryonline, Dabiri-Erewa through her Special Adviser, Mr. Abdur-Rahman Balogun described the Wilson’s allegation as confusing. “Our attention has been drawn to an obviously confusing and illogical statement being circulated in the media by the Chairman of NIDO, Europe, Mr. Kenneth Gbendi on the relationship between Nigerians in the Diaspora Commission, NIDCOM and the Nigerians in Diaspora Organisation, NIDO, as well as other several cultural and professional diaspora groups abroad.” According to Balogun, when former President Olusegun Obasanjo came up with the idea of NIDO as an umbrella body of all diaspora organisations, for 20yrs, this was not achieved. “So it is important to stress here that NIDCOM is not to relate with NIDO but all recognised diaspora organisations. “NIDCOM has been able to engage as many diaspora groups as possible in all parts of the world through its various activities and intervention but the leadership of NIDO, Europe wants to go it all alone. And according to Kenneth Gbendi who has been in NIDO’s leadership in the last 20yrs, “it’s either my way or no way. “For the purpose of  clarity and emphasis, NIDCOM is for the diasporas, irrespective of groups or affiliations, not for one organisation or group in the Diaspora,” he stressed. He added that NIDCOM under the leadership of Abike Dabiri-Erewa, “will continue to be guided by the Act of the people that set it up as well as see to the overall welfare of all Nigerians living abroad in line with its citizen diplomacy philosophy.” The management of The Sun Publishing Limited, says it was wrong for the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, to have visited its head office with notice to seal the premises. The EFCC had earlier issued a statement, said it marked the premises of Slok Nigeria Limited warned staff to… December 14, 2019 In "Project" Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM) has denied receiving any correspondence from Nigerians in Diaspora Organisation (NIDO) East China, requesting that its members be evacuated from that country owing to the coronavirus epidemic. NIDCOM made the denial in a statement signed by Abdur-Rahman Balogun its Head of Media and Public Relations… February 4, 2020 In "Health" The Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM) has initiated its Artificial Intelligence (AI) assistant and emergency call lines to facilitate efficient communication with Nigerians abroad.The commission disclosed this in a statement by its Head of Media and Public Relations Unit, Abdur-Rahman Balogun.The commission stated that the emergency call lines were launched to… April 15, 2020 In "News"