 The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, on Friday, May 15, 2020, handed over a property forfeited by former Minister of Petroleum Resources, Diezani Allison-Madueke to the Lagos State government for use as an isolation centre for COVID-19 patients. The property consisting six flats of three bedrooms and a boys’ quarter was forfeited by Mrs Allison-Madueke  following an order of Lagos State Federal High in 2017. Speaking during the handover ceremony, the Lagos Zonal Head of the EFCC, Mohammed Rabo stated that the gesture was part of the Commission’s social responsibility efforts towards the fight against the spread of Corona virus. “In addition to our mandate to fight economic and financial crimes, the Commission is committed and ready to render essential services that may be required of it in the fight against covid-19. Therefore, Lagos State should not hesitate to call on the Commission anytime the need for such essential service arises,” he said. In his remarks, the state governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, thanked the Commission for the gesture, noting that it was a welcome collaboration between the Federal and Lagos State Government. While assuring the Commission that the property would be put to good use, the governor thanked the EFCC for paying attention to the efforts of the state government at containing COVID 19, adding that “part of the challenges we have been facing is getting isolation centres for COVID-19 patients. We will go round the facility to see what we can do to improve on it.” N47.2 Billion and $487.5 Million in cash and properties have so far been traced to the former Minister of Petroleum Resources in the Ex-President Goodluck Jonathan’s administration, Mrs. Diezani Alison-Madueke. This followed painstaking investigations by operatives of Nigeria's Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC. From time immemorial, precious metals - gold,… August 9, 2017 In "Business" Justice Mohammed Yinusa of the Federal High Court, Lagos today July 8, 2015 convicted four companies associated with former governor of Enugu State, Chimaroke Nnamani and ordered that their properties be forfeited to the Federal Government.  The four companies are Rainbownet Nigeria Limited, Cosmos FM, Capital City Automobile Nigeria Limited… July 7, 2015 In "Business" Justice Mohammed Liman of the Federal High Court sitting in Ikoyi, Lagos, on Tuesday, October 22, 2019, ordered the temporary forfeiture of some landed properties valued at N6.42bn belonging to Kola Aluko, an ally of a former Minister of Petroleum Recources, Diezani Allison-Madueke. Justice Liman gave the order following an… October 22, 2019 In "Anti-Graft"