On the 27th of February 2020, Nigeria announced the index case of covid19 in the country. Government subsequently took measures to close the borders and establish stringent protocol for screening and observing visitors and returning Nigerians. As the covid infections kept going up, on March 23 2020, the Federal Government of Nigeria announced a total lockdown in the FCT, Lagos, and Ogun States as part of measures to contain the spread of the COVID-19. Thereafter, other states within the country declared similar lockdown measures including the institution of curfews, stringent restriction of movement, interstate travel restrictions, and the closure of state borders. While the lockdown, accompanied by other measures was aimed at containment, the negative impact of these measures will also be immediate and significant.Through engagement with partners, key government and development agencies, the OSIWA Nigeria office discovered that the adverse effect of the lockdown not only led to extreme hardship for a certain category of vulnerable groups in society; but that the situation was further exacerbated by a deficit of information and inadequacy of platforms for engagement between the government and citizens. For example, the urban and rural poor, and persons at the grassroots who were suddenly faced with untold economic hardship did not have a complete picture with regards to how COVID-19 affects them and the available palliative measures Government was putting in place. A dearth of information in rural areas meant that citizens were not provided with the needed knowledge to practice safety measures during the pandemic. With a lot of information and interactions going on online, the majority of Nigerians who do not have internet access were left out in the information exchange around the pandemic.Furthermore, among the vulnerable and high-risk persons, people living with HIV, for instance, experienced difficulty accessing their antiretrovirals which could have led to a greater public health disaster. Other vulnerable groups also experienced the disproportionate impact of the lockdown, including women and children living with disabilities. Survivors of sexual and gender-based violence and victims of domestic violence were forced to stay in lockdown with their abusers. Service providers and first responders to these categories of persons were not designated as essential service providers which led to the inadvertent denial of their protection and support at such a critical time.The use of force by security actors to enforce lockdown measures was also an immediate concern. Inversely, the absence of adequate security in certain quarters exposed communities to rising levels of insecurity occasioned by increasing economic fragility.It was therefore important for the OSIWA office in Nigeria to provide responses to these challenges and support partners to address these gaps. To achieve these goals, the Nigeria office adopted both grant-making and advocacy measures. The total sum of $413,248.33 (Four Hundred and Thirteen Thousand Two Hundred and Forty Eight United States Dollars and Thirty Three Cents) (NGN165,299,332) has been disbursed so far for COVID-19 related support to different organisations as grants. This is excluding other in-kind support and on-going grant conversations.Some of the interventions are highlighted below: The arrival of COVID-19 in Nigeria led to an information explosion in the social media space while there was a dearth of information amongst persons at the grassroots. Social media was awash with varied claims on COVID-19 cures, causes and symptoms. Dispelling misinformation about the pandemic and the provision of public health advisories needed to reach citizens in languages they understood. It was also necessary to make these platforms interactive because citizens had concerns and their voices also needed to be heard. To create synergy between the authorized information sharing systems at the national level and the sub-national levels a unified public sensitisation programme was the most ideal approach. So far, OSIWA has provided support to COVID-19 programming on television, print media and radio stations across the country. We were strategic with the radio stations we partnered with because a critical mass of citizens needed to be reached. The radio stations are RayPower Radio- reaching the Federal Capital Territory, Edo, Gombe, Bauchi, Kano, Oyo, Osun, Lagos, and Rivers States; Freedom Radio- which presents its COVID-19 programmes in the Hausa language is targeted at citizens in North West and North East Nigeria reaching, amongst others, Kano, Jigawa, Katsina and parts of Kaduna States. Using Facebook to air its programmes, Freedom radio is interactive and has become a trusted information source for citizens in those regions; Human Rights Radio- a station widely famous for its dogged pursuit of human rights issues, (with the add-on of Facebook live programming) has given citizens a platform to present complaints and express their concerns on the rights violations they experienced and the challenges that were presented through the lockdown. It reaches an estimated audience of about 20 million. Nigeria Info also provided public engagement and led conversations on national interest. Premium Times and Media Advocacy West Africa Foundation (MAWA-Foundation) have also received support or in the process of receiving support to report human rights abuses and the economic predicament of citizens as the lockdown continued. So far, we are on track to fulfilling the outcome of noticeable improvements in public understanding of the COVID-19 pandemic, the role of citizens in contributing to their safety during a pandemic, and in giving citizens a platform to engage with the Government on the impact of the lockdown.