 NGO Network, a national CSO working with the public, private and the non-profit sectors to advance good governance, transparency and inclusiveness has commended President Muhammad Buhari for inauguration the Ajaokuta Presidential Project Team (APPIT) last week.In a telephone chat with the Project Director of the organization, Alh. Mohammed Bougei Attah, he expressed joy and satisfaction that with this move, Nigeria is set to achieve her long awaited accelerated economic growth and advancement. The inauguration of the APPIT which is a follow up to series of engagements between Nigeria and the Russia governments have opened a new vista for self-sufficiency and producing economy. He therefore commended the President for the composition of the APPIT as all the members are people of integrity and liberal minded. Attah however observed that since the Memorandum of Understanding between the three parties, Nigeria government, Russia government and AFFREMIX Bank is not yet in the public domain, the APPIT should ensure relevant sections of the agreement take into consideration several factors that will support a smooth administration of the project. Mr Olamilekan Adegbite, the Minister of Mines and Steel Development says the Federal Government is leaving no stone unturned to ensure that Ajaokuta Steel Company becomes fully operational in the next two years. Adegbite said this on Friday in Ajaokuta during a tour of the steel complex. The minister commended… November 1, 2019 In "Business" The leadership of the National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN) commends the Federal Government of Nigeria on the bilateral agreement signed today 23rd of October, 2019 by  President Muhammadu Buhari and Russian President, Vladimir Putin , during the ongoing Russian -Africa Summit in Sochi, Russia. Almustapha Asuku Abdullahi, President,National Youth Council… October 24, 2019 In "Business" The Federal Government has inaugurated the Ajaokuta Presidential Project Implementation Team (APPIT), aimed at economic diversification agenda of President Muhammadu Buhari led-Administration. Mr Boss Mustapha, Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), made this known in statement signed by Mr Willie Bassey, Director, Information, office of the SGF and… May 11, 2020 In "Business"