The Nigeria Bar Association (NBA), Kaduna State Branch, has set up a four-man committee to monitor activities of mobile courts in the state Mr Samson Audu, the NBA chairman, in a statement issued on Friday in Kaduna and made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), said the committee would ensure that activities of courts were in line with the law. He listed the members of the committee as:  M.T. Mohammed, Chairman, Maxwell Kyon, Secretary, Mike Nwakanma,  Ex-Officio Member and Onajite Saidu Ogedengbe, member. He said that members of the association were aware that the state government has set up mobile courts to try offenders of the quarantine orders. The NBA chairman stated that to ensure compliance with the rule of law, administration of criminal justice and ensure that fundamental human rights of such offenders were not violated, the association constituted the committee. ”The function of the committee is to monitor proceedings in accordance with the rule of law, observe the rules of natural justice, equity and fair play,” he said. Audu added that this would be in line with the state’s Administration of Criminal Justice Law, 2017 and the 1999 Constitution (as amended). He further stated that Justice MTM Aliyu of the state High Court would sit on Wednesdays to hear urgent matters during the period of the lock down. He said that the association was engaging the judiciary and executive on modalities to ensure that the court reopened as soon as the lockdown was lifted. The chairman, however, appreciated members of the committee for accepting to serve the association in this time of pandemic and assured them of his full support. He also commended the leaders of the bar for their donation of funds and food to vulnerable members in this time of pandemic. He urged the members to comply with all notices and directives issued by the state government to curb the spread of Covid-19.(NAN) The Acting Chief Judge of Kaduna, Mr Muhammadu Bello on Thursday,y inaugurated a 13-member monitoring committee that would oversee the implementation of the Administration of Criminal Justice Law in the State. The committee is made up of the Chief Judge, Judge of High Court, Grand Khadi, President customary court of… December 20, 2018 In "News" The Acting Chief Judge of Kaduna, Mr Muhammadu Bello,  on Thursday,y inaugurated a 13-member monitoring committee that would oversee the implementation of the Administration of Criminal Justice Law in the State. The committee is made up of the Chief Judge, Judge of High Court, Grand Khadi, President customary court of… December 20, 2018 In "News" Rivers State Government has re-inaugurated the petroleum products monitoring committee to enable it perform effectively.The Committee has Mr. Gogo Fiberesima as Chairman, Mr. Joshua A. Amadi as Secretary and a total membership of one hundred and one (101) persons. Speaking during the inauguration at the banquet hall of Government House,… June 14, 2012 In "Business"