Just more than half of Germans would like the current restrictions put in place to control the spread of the novel coronavirus to remain in effect, according to the results of a new poll. Of those polled, 56 per cent said they were sceptical of plans to lift the measures, which have kept Germans from congregating in groups and kept many businesses shuttered, although certain areas of public life have gradually reopened in recent weeks. Forty per cent said they would like to see a further loosening of the guidelines in the coming weeks. Three per cent say they “did not know,” while one per cent gave no response. Those who wanted to see the guidelines loosened tended to say they support Germany’s pro-business Free Democrats (FDP) or the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD). The poll queried 1,034 people on Tuesday and Wednesday. It was conducted by infratest-dimap for Deutschland Trend, run by public broadcaster ARD. The margin of error lies between 1.4 and 3.1 per cent. (dpa/NAN) Facebook (FB.O) is making a big marketing drive in Germany just as the country starts to implement tough regulations designed to clamp down on online hate speech. The U.S. corporation has historically done little advertising of its own but has plastered billboards across Germany with posters featuring ordinary people expressing… December 20, 2017 In "News" The West Africa has found itself in the news recently for two diametrically opposed phenomena; the coup in Mali just six weeks to national elections and the just concluded run-off elections in Senegal. The Senegalese elections are especially poignant for many reasons. A careless observer would quickly see Macky Sall’s… March 30, 2012 In "Africa" Ahead of the Monday expiration of the lockdown imposed by the Federal Government on Lagos State, Ogun State and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Lagos State Government has introduced strict framework for movement and re-opening of businesses. The set of new guidelines, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu said in his ninth briefing… April 29, 2020 In "Health"