By Chimezie Godfrey The Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management, and Social Development, Sadiya Umar Farouq, has said that hunger is a byproduct of coronavirus pandemic. She made the statement while flagging off the Modified Home Grown School Feeding Program at Kuje, FCT, in Abuja on Thursday. “As we have stated consistently, this programme is funded by the Federal Government but implemented by the states. “I am therefore here to flag off the commencement of the modified program in the FCT and to conduct a spot checks of the operations. “Hunger is a serious by-product of this pandemic crisis, which is why from the onset the Ministry has been evolving strategies to facilitate humanitarian interventions. “The commencement of the school feeding programme today is based on Mr. President’s directive to the Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development to liaise with State governments to develop strategies on the continuation of the school feeding programme,” she stated. According to the Minister, the Ministry in consultation and collaboration with State governments identified the distribution of Take-Home Rations (THR) to the households of the children on the programme as a feasible method of achieving this directive after exploring several options. “This is a globally accepted means of supporting children to continue to have access to nutrient rich foods despite disruptions to the traditional channels of school feeding. “Beginning today in Abuja, this programme will target parents and guardians of children in primary 1 to 3 in public schools participating in the programme. “A total of 3.1 million households are targeted for this intervention. Lagos and Ogun states are next ports of call before the programme moves to other states of the Federation. “As noted earlier we are working with the World Food Programme who are providing technical support while other agencies of government have been invited to provide an extra layer of monitoring. “They include the DSS, EFCC, ICPC, Code of Conduct Bureau and a host of NGOs and CSOs,” she said. She explained that the Ministry is using the opportunity of this modified program to collect and verify data with the support of CSOs and NGOs such as ActionAid, BudgIT, Tracka, and CMDA. “We are thankful for the support of NGOs including Wimbiz, Waterlight initiative, AU ECOSOC, Orphans and women support initiative, Youth fighters for covid-19, Nigerian red cross, Coalition of NGOs and CSOs against covid-19, Africa global empowerment and development network and a host others supporting the Ministry. “We are working hard with our partners to mitigate the challenge posed by hunger especially during this trying period. Please be assured that we are focused, determined and committed to cushioning the effects for Nigerians,” the Minister said. In his remark, the  Executive Chairman, Kuje Area Council, Abdullahi Suleiman Sabo appreciated the Humanitarian Minister for choosing to start with his Council among the six area councils in the FCT. Sabo disclosed that barely two months ago, the ministry as part of its conditional cash-transfer programme disbursed stipends to the poor and vulnerable households in across the country and that Kuke is a beneficiary. According to the Chairman, for every child at this level of education to grow into his or her potentials, must be well fed with good nutrition. “This initiative will boost healthy growrh, courage and primary school enrollment as witnessed since the programme started in the country. “To further augment what the federal government is doing through the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs and FCT, the Council in its own little way through its commitment to education, has boosted teaching and learning capabilities of the primary school teachers and pupils with the provision of learning and instructional materials, branded exercise books to pupils, distribution of food items to orphanage homes, provision of motorcycles to teachers for adequate monitoring and supervision of schools,” he said. He further said that the Council at intervals also organized sensitization on Girl Child Education, among other efforts put in place to give Kuje child the best education at the grass root level. Present at the flag off ceremony are the Country Director, World Food Programme, Paul Harp, Senator representing the FCT, Philip Aduda represented by Alhaji Ali Dankaru, among others.