The Presidency on Thursday in Abuja listed measures put in place by President Muhammadu Buhari to make life better for Nigerians in post COVID-19 era. A statement by the President’s spokesman, Mr Femi Adesina, said the measures are being taken in view of the global anxiety on what the future holds for humanity post-COVID-19, particularly in respect of the economy, healthcare, job security, and general wellbeing. He said, naturally, Nigerians are not immune from the disquietude, as they belong to the global community. The presidential aide revealed the checklist of some measures that President Muhammadu Buhari has taken, and will further take, to make life abundant for Nigerians. He said: “This should assuage some apprehensions:: an economic team, headed by the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning has been set up to examine the impact of COVID-19 on the economy. “Economic Sustainability Committee headed by the Vice President to define a post-COVID-19 economy for Nigeria. “Task force set up on free movement of farm produce headed by the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. “Plans afoot to tackle weak health systems and infrastructure through establishment of standard laboratories, intensive care units, and isolation centres in all states of the Federation. The health infrastructure will eventually be recalibrated for the good of the people, and in readiness for future emergencies. “As long term measure, emphasis will be placed on integrating local content in proven researches in cure, and production of materials in the heath sector. “A Fiscal Sustainability Plan to complement the suite of monetary and banking interventions recently announced by the Central Bank of Nigeria. “A mass agricultural programme to be put in place. “Major rural road construction programme. “Mass housing programme. “Large scale installation of residential solar systems, utilizing mainly local materials. “Expansion of the Social Investment Programme. “The 2020 to 2022 Medium Term Expenditure Framework and the Budget 2020 assumptions and targets have already been revised. “Time-sensitive expenditures are to be prioritized over less critical spending and extant financial controls are to be strengthened to detect, eliminate and sanction instances of waste, funds misappropriation and corruption.’’(NAN) Dr Olisa Agbakoba, former President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), has urged the Federal government to consider adopting local measures to combat the ravaging Coronavirus disease (COVID-19 ) pandemic. Agbakoba, who gave the advice in a statement in Lagos on Monday, said such advice became inevitable because the dreaded… April 27, 2020 In "Health" President Muhammadu Buhari has enjoined Nigerians to use this year’s Easter celebration in intensifying prayers against the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and other challenges facing the country. The president, who made the call in his 2020 Easter message to Nigerians, urged the citizens to remain faithful and hopeful as the nation… April 10, 2020 In "Health" The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) says it has established community transmission of the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19)  in Abuja, Lagos and Kano states. The NCDC Director-General, Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu, made the disclosure on Channels Television Station in Abuja, on Sunday. He spoke on the backdrop of gradual  lockdown ease… May 4, 2020 In "Health"