 The trial of the former Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Babachir Lawal, before Justice Jude Okeke of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) High Court, Maitama has been adjourned to June 10, 2020 for continuation of trial. The trial was to continue today, May 14, 2020 but could not   due to the absence of the prosecution witness who could not travel to Abuja due to the ban on inter-state travels as a result of the COVID 19 pandemic. “We have a challenge, securing the attendance of the  witness who is outside the court’s jurisdiction,”  prosecution counsel, Offem Uket told the court, adding that he only got a two day’s notice on today’s case. Uket, however, apologised to the court for stalling proceedings and asked for an adjournment to enable him provide the witness in court. Defence counsel, Chief Akin Olujimi SAN did not object to the prosecution’s application for adjournment. Justice Jude Okeke granted the application and adjourned the matter till June 10 and 15, 2020 for further hearing on the matter. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC is prosecuting Lawal along with his younger brother, Hamidu David Lawal. Others are: Suleiman Abubakar, Apeh John Monday and two companies, Rholavision Engineering Ltd and Josmon Technologies Ltd on a 10-count amended charge, bordering on fraud, diversion of funds and criminal conspiracy to the tune of N1.1 billion. The trial of former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Babachir Lawal was on Thursday stalled in FCT High Court Maitama on account of illegible prosecution witness document. Mr Aminu Ahmed, the fourth prosecution witness had introduced himself as Principal Procurement officer in the office of secretary to the… January 23, 2020 In "Judiciary" #TrackNigeria -The trial of former Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Babachir Lawal and three others could not go on today, June 18, 2019 before Justice Jude Okeke of the Federal Capital Territory, High Court, Maitama, due to the absence of the lead defence counsel, Chief Akin Olujimi,… June 18, 2019 In "Anti-Graft" Justice Jude Okeke of an FCT High Court on Thursday urged  the EFCC to put its house in order in the trial of former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Babacir Lawal. The EFCC charged Lawal alongside six others with alleged N544.1 million contract fraud. Also charged are the former… May 14, 2020 In "Anti-Graft"