The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Abia, on Thursday, dissolved the state executive committee (EXCO) and replaced it with a caretaker committee. The dissolution was coming in the wake of the expiration of the four years of the EXCO headed by Chief Johnson Onuigbo from Abia Central Senatorial District. The Acting Publicity Secretary of the party, Love Ezema, who confirmed the dissolution to newsmen in Umuahia, said that the caretaker committee comprised members of the dissolved EXCO with Onuigbo as the chairman. The National Vice Chairman, South East, Chief Austin Umahi, who inaugurated the caretaker chairman, said that the committee had three months to operate, pending the emergence of a substantive executive. Umahi charged the members to work hard and ensure that the party would continue to retain Abia. The PDP congress for the emergence of a new state EXCO was stalled by COVID-19 after the ward and local government congresses had been successfully conducted. The PDP caucus in its recent meeting in Umuahia, zoned the chairmanship of the party to Abia South Senatorial District. (NAN) The National Working Committee (NWC) of the Peoples Democratic Party has  announced the dissolution of the Ondo State Executive Committee of the  party. By this announcement, all structures of the party at the ward,  local government and state levels stand dissolved. Consequently, a Caretaker Committee has been constituted to pilot… October 26, 2014 In "News" By Ewache Ajefu/Editor The National Working Committee (NWC) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has dissolved the Adamawa State Chapter of the Party. A Caretaker Committee has also been set up to manage the affairs of the Party in the State pending further directives. "On behalf of the National Executive… October 17, 2012 In "News" The National Working Committee (NWC) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has dissolved the Kano State Executive Committee of the party. A statement signed by the party’s National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, on Friday in Abuja said that the dissolution took effect immediately. The statement said that the decision was… August 31, 2018 In "Politics"