The Senator representing Kaduna Central, Malam Uba Sani, has unveiled a Ramadan support package targeting two million households in Kaduna state. The two million households targeted span across the seven local government areas of Birnin Gwari, Giwa, Igabi, Kaduna North, Kaduna South, Chikun and Kajuru that makeup his constituency. The Senator, while flagging-off the distribution of the 10 trailer load of foodstuffs on recently, noted that, the gesture was aimed at cushioning the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic as Ramadan fasting begins. Sani who was represented at the event by his Zonal Chief Constituency Officer, Abubakar Rabiu Abubakar, said the whole world is bleeding due to the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Senator said Kaduna State, alongside other state governments, has taken the bold, painful, but necessary decision on the lockdown order to stop the spread of the deadly Coronavirus. “As a result of this pandemic, which has prevented people from going out to do their lawful businesses, and the commencement of Ramadan, we felt it has become imperative to provide succour to our people. “These palliatives which include essential foodstuffs like, rice, millet, sugar and vegetable oil is targeted at two million households across the seven Local government areas in Kaduna Central Senatorial Zone and it will continue for the next seven days. “Also, in view of the commencement of the Ramadan fasting, the palliatives will target religious groups, orphanages, Women groups, traditional institution and vulnerable groups,” Sani said. The Senator noted that aside the distribution of palliatives, he joined his colleagues in the upper chamber of the National Assembly to donate half of their salaries to the fight against the pandemic. He also disclosed that the Kaduna State caucus of the National Assembly members, which he chairs, donated N14 million to Kaduna state government to help combat the COVID-19. Receiving the trailer load of the palliative materials for Igabi Local Government, the All Progressive Congress (APC) chairman in the local government,  Shehu Gambo, expressed appreciation to the Senator and promised equitable distribution of the materials.