Sokoto state government has reviewed the statewide curfew imposed in line with the federal government directive from 10 pm to 6 am daily. This decision was taken by the Joint Security Council and the state Task Force on COVID-19 at a meeting presided over by Governor Aminu Tambuwal. Penultimate week, the state government imposed an 8pm to 6am curfew in its effort to curtail the spread of the Coronavirus. However, the state government, according to the Chairman of the Task Force on COVID-19, Dr Muhammad Ali Inname, in making the decision, took into consideration the requests made by people of the state for the extension of the curfew time. Despite the relaxation of the curfew, the people of the state have been admonished to ensure compliance with the World Health Organization (WHO), the federal Ministry of Health and state Ministry of Health guidelines on the prevention of COVID-19. These are use of face masks, social distancing, use of hand sanitizer in washing hands and other measures that may be stipulated. The Nigerian Medical Association (NMA), FCT chapter, has called on the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 and heads of security agencies to intervene in alleged harassment of its members by security personnel enforcing the imposed curfew in the territory. The Chairman of the chapter, Dr Philips Ekpe, made the call… May 15, 2020 In "Health" Bayelsa Governor, Douye Diri has imposed a five-day dusk-to-dawn curfew in the state as part of measures to prevent the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. According to a statement signed by Freston Akpor, Permanent Secretary in the state Ministry of Information and Orientation, who is also a member of the… April 19, 2020 In "Health" Kaduna State Government has temporarily relaxed the restriction of movement which was imposed throughout the state to check the spread of COVID-19. In a state broadcast on Wednesday, the Deputy Governor, Dr Hadiza Balarabe said that the curfew will be eased from 3pm on Wednesday to 12 midnight on Thursday.… April 1, 2020 In "Health"