By Chimezie Godfrey The Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development Sadiya Farouq has congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari on Nigeria’s 60th Independence Day anniversary. This was contained in a statement on Thursday by the Special Assistant (SA) on Media to the Minister, Nneka Anibeze Farouq thanked the President for the creation of the Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development Ministry and his commitment to the poor in the society. “Mr President has restated his administration’s determination to lift one hundred million Nigerians out of poverty over the next ten years through its Social Investment Programmes. “He may not be in office for another ten years but he has set in motion a solid foundation that will  ensure that this set target is achieved. “As we celebrate our 60th Independence anniversary, let us remember the severe humanitarian needs in some parts of Nigeria created by conflict and resolve to live in peace and unity,” the Minister stated. Earlier in his Independence Day celebration address, President Buhari recalled  his administration’s efforts to support the small business owners who are the major contributors to the nation’s economy. This, he said is still in place despite the harsh realities the country’s economy is facing  due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “Our government is grappling with the dual challenge of saving lives and livelihoods in the face of drastically reduced resources. “In the last three years, we have introduced unprecedented measures in support of the economy and to the weakest members of our society in the shape of Tradermoni, Farmermoni, School Feeding Programme, Job creation efforts, Agricultural and intervention programmes. “No government in the past did what we are doing with such scarce resources,” the President stated. On the occasion of Nigeria’s 60th Independence anniversary, Farouq  urged Nigerians to live in peace and unity as conflicts and crisis only create more humanitarian emergencies.