Immediate past Governor of Ekiti State,  Mr Ayodele Fayose has accused the Governor of one of the South West States  and former  top national official  of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), (names withheld) of masterminding the assault on him at the party’s campaign rally for the Ondo State governorship election in Ondo town today. Fayose  was making his way to the podium at the campaign ground when a hoodlum, ostensibly acting on instruction, moved towards him and removed his cap.     Reacting through his Media Aide,  Lere Olayinka, the former governor said despite the shameful act, he won’t stop telling the truth concerning the running of the party in the Southwest zone and those who have failed to produce any result in Lagos State since 1999 will be made to retire. He said he will make formal report of the incidence to the security agencies and the party relevant authorities,  noting that it was not something to be handled with levity as security agencies will have to unravel all the thugs brought to the event and their sponsors.    “That’s how late Chief Bola Ige’s cap was removed in Ile Ife,  Osun State then and we all know what happened later. “So this one will not be ignored and treated as one of those things. “The masterminds had it all planned and they followed it up by celebrating what they saw as the success of their plot. They even capped it up by circulating the video.       “So it was not an accident,  it was planned. But those who planned it only succeeded in advertising their political myopism because popularity of the brand Ayo Fayose, Osokomole cannot be rubbished by such childish act. That they must have seen in the reaction of the people at the rally and I am sure they know that they can’t get such
loud ovation even if they spend all the money in this world. “As for me,  I am unperturbed and I must say it clearly that those new comers to the PDP and their old allies, who won’t mind soiling the image of the party to achieve their aims will not be allowed to succeed,” he said.